The musician, whose real name is Ntombezinhle Jiyane, will do so through a new local reality show which is set to air tonight. The SABC1 programme, called It Takes a Village, will see Jiyane visit the small town of Dannhauser, where the community is facing several challenges. These include unemployment, alcohol and drug abuse, teenage pregnancy and crime. But together with personal development and life coach Nokubonga Mbatha, the pair will offer support to residents, especially young women. Jiyane said she was thrilled to be part of such an initiative as she is intent on improving her home-
town. “Dannhauser is my hometown. I am very proud of it, and it gave me absolute satisfaction to go home and make a difference.” Jiyane said she was also happy that, through her reality TV show, she could help provide assistance to
women. “This project is very close to my heart because I’m very passionate about the success, growth and development of young women. “Women are facing a lot of challenges and there is a lot we can do to make sure they have a chance at a better future.” She said she hoped the show would inspire people to do their part. “I am happy to assist where I can, in my own little way, and I hope that the show will inspire people everywhere to do their part in contributing towards the future of our women.” In the SABC1 promotional video which has recently been posted online, the DJ explains that she often goes back home to Dannhauser in order to take a break from the hectic city life one encounters in Joburg. But there she is often confronted with the community struggling with various social ills. SABC1 acting programme manager Sane Zondi said the station had produced It Takes a Village in an attempt to empower South Africans. He also hoped that people would, by watching the programme, be inspired to help their fellow citizens. “We are excited to bring this new offering to our 
viewers at a time when we all reflect on the year that 
has been and seek to make better choices for the year ahead. “The show is made with the spirit and intention of empowering the human spirit to elevate above its circumstances and to strive for more,” said Zondi. The premiere episode of It Takes a Village airs tonight at 9pm on SABC1.