Durban - Idols runner-up Mthokozisi Ndaba, who went on the run after allegedly assaulting a young woman and breaking her tooth, has finally resurfaced. Police have confirmed that they are investigating a case of assault. On Tuesday, he released a statement on social media to inform his fans that he is now co-operating with police, after Neo Tsele said Ndaba had punched and slammed her against a wall during a drunken argument. Read: Idols loser wanted for allegedly beating woman PICS: Woman allegedly beaten by Idols' Mthokozisi speaks out She posted images of her bruised face and bloodied mouth on Instagram.  On Tuesday, Ndaba posted on his Instagram page that “in light of the current allegations” laid against him, he has returned to Johannesburg to “co-operate with the police regarding the matter”. The KwaZulu-Natal singer also took the opportunity to punt his new single as well as that of his fellow Idols SA contestants, including winner Paxton Fielies. The statement read: “Good day Mzansi Africa, In light of the current allegations and a case opened against me, I have returned to Joburg again to cooperate with the police regarding the matter. In as much as this has affected Me, the craft God Blessed me with, the family, friends & fans negatively but let us please let our SA law to handle the matter rightfully. I plead with TeamMthokozisi & everyone to not attack the complainant on social media. We do not know what issues she may be dealing with. Please Mzansi. Let us continue taking a stand against violence on women and children. I love you all! Please continue downloading 1. Paxton and 3. Bothlale’s tracks...and of course 2. Masithandane. Download, view, like & share. Stay Peaceful & Always Blessed.(sic)” Tsele told police she had been arguing with one of her friends when Ndaba intervened. They were all at the flat of Ndaba’s cousin in Braamfontein having a party. After the assault, she called police and her brother. She said: “Police searched the flat of his cousin, he was not there. He was probably hiding in other rooms because it’s a big flat. “I did not even know he was well-known because I did not watch Idols. It was my friends who said they could recognise him from Idols and that was after he had beaten me.” Ndaba drew criticism for being a bad loser when he walked off the stage after Paxton was announced the winner of Idols last Sunday, and refused to do interviews afterwards. Also read: #IdolsSA runner-up Mthokozisi Ndaba 'not coping well with loss' Mthokozisi releases statement for 'no show' after #IdolsSA finale Paxton on Tuesday said she felt sorry for Ndaba. “It’s not nice knowing he’s getting all this bad publicity straight after Idols. He is a hard worker and a good musician, it’s just unfortunate that things went this way but I hope he comes forward and speaks up against these allegations made against him,” she told the Daily Voice.  Idols SA said they have not been able to reach Ndaba. Mzansi Magic spokesperson, Nondumiso Mabece, said Mzansi Magic and Idols SA condemn any act of abuse, but would provide professional support to Ndaba. Daily Voice