To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Zimbabwe's incoming leader Emmerson Mnangagwa at a rally. Mnangagwa returned to Zimbabwe earlier today. pic.twitter.com/lGRp0YHZDl  #EmmersonMnangagwa: Today I feel humbled that you've remain here at the Zanu-PF HQ until this hour waiting for me. Today we witness the beginning of an unfolding democracy. #Zimbabwe  — IOL News (@IOL) November 22, 2017 To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  He began by telling the crowd about why he went on exile to South Africa. "In August, I was subjected to poisoning which resulted in me being airlifted to South Africa. This time around I said I will not wait for them to eliminate me and decided to go to South Africa,"  he said. Mnangagwa said he was humbled by the support Zimbabweans have shown him. "Today we are witnessing a new and unfolding democracy.  President Jacob Zuma and [former Tanzanian] President [Jakaya] Kikwete have also sent their messages commending you for the disciplined and peaceful way you have handled yourselves. They say the way we have handled this process makes them proud as Africans," he said. Mnangagwa, set to be sworn in on Friday morning at 10am, called on Zimbabweans to begin working towards a new beginning for the country. "I call upon all genuine patriotic Zimbabweans to come together, work together. No one is more important than than the other. We are all Zimbabweans," he said. "We want to grow our economy, we want peace in our country, we want jobs, jobs, jobs." The presidential nominee nicknamed "crocodile" also recognised Parliament Speaker Jacob Mudenda for sticking to the constitution. "I wish to commend the manner in which the speaker handled the process under intense pressure from those that wanted to derail it," he said. Mnangagwa said Wednesday night, was just to greet and thank Zimbabweans.  He promised to give a proper speech at his Friday inauguration.