CAPE TOWN - Black Friday is set to have consumers in a shopping frenzy as large retailers and online stores drop their prices at alarming rates. Take a look at these retailers who are bringing their consumers the best deals with the best prices. Retailers are preparing their stores for eager shoppers, gearing up for fantastic deals on offer. The good news for those who are not looking forward to standing in long-winded queues is that you can still get the latest deals, without the stress. Take a look at these online retailers that are offering insane discounts of up to 85% at just a click of a button away. 1. Takealot Takealot has cleverly prepared its customers for mega Black Friday deals with its ‘Blue Dot Sale”. For customers to receive an email notification of Takealot’s biggest sale this year, they are requested to complete an online form before 8:00 am on Thursday, November 23. The ‘Blue Dot Sale’ will commence by midnight on Thursday which will have keen shoppers glued to their screen. 2. Bidorbuy Online shopping website, Bidorbuy has already kicked off with mega deals in light of Black Friday. They are offering users up to 85% discount on items for the Black Friday sale, said to last all week. 3. Pricecheck A leading website that compares prices between different retailers, Price Check is keeping their customers in suspense with their countdown to Black Friday. They promise their customers exclusive deals which is expected to be worth the mystery and wait. READ: Debt expert warns about perils of Black Friday 4. Catch of the Day Leading shopping website, Catch of the Day is keeping things simple with its offer on marked down products. Customers can get their hands on everything from home accessories to watches and even beauty products. 5. Sportscene Influencers in sneakers, Sportscene is gearing their customers up for a competitive sale of up to 50% off on items for Black Friday. Sneaker lovers will have their pick of some of the latest sneakers sure to keep them on track this festive season. 6. Zando Online clothing retailer, Zando has already kicked off the Black Friday festivities. They are currently offering customers up to 80% off selected items on their website. 7. Loot Online retailer, loot.co.za is aiming to give its customers exactly what they want for a fraction of the price, this Black Friday. After achieving growth of over 150 percent last year, the retailer announced a mega sale this coming Black Friday. Consumers will be able to select products from across 17 departments for up to 80% off. Anything from games to electronics and even toys can be purchased on the loot website this Black Friday. READ ALSO: Loot.co.za is more than ready for #BlackFriday - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE