Miss SA 2017 Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters was crowned Miss Universe at a glittering ceremony in the US during the early hours of yesterday.  Shortly after the announcement in Las Vegas, Nel-Peters, who is a BCom graduate and hails from Sedgefield in the Western Cape, thanked South Africans for their support as fans, as many of them voted for her to take home the prestigious title. In a voice clip that was sent to The Star, the 22-year-old said: “The South African support has been absolutely incredible. “We haven’t had a Miss
Universe from South Africa
in 39 years, so this one is
for you. “I hope to make you all proud and I hope to be the physical representation of what a South African young woman is.” Following her win, social media platforms were flooded with congratulatory messages, with scores of people commending her for uniting the country and making the nation swell with pride. Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa was among those who took to Twitter to thank her for flying the South African flag high. “Congratulations to Miss South Africa Demi-Leigh Nel- Peters @DemiLeighNP on being crowned #MissUniverse 2017. Thank you for representing us with distinction and flying our flag high,” he posted. He was joined by the likes of media personalities Maps Maponyane, Shashi Naidoo and model Lee-Ann Liebenberg, who also took to social media platforms to express their excitement and joy. Former Miss South Africas Cindy Nell, Liesl Laurie, Ntandoyenkosi Kunene and Kerishnie Naicker took to Instagram to applaud the new Miss Universe. Miss SA 2014 Rolene Strauss, who took the Miss World title in the same year, also praised Nel-Peters on Instagram. She posted a picture with the caption: “This is the day the Lord has made. We believed it, spoke it and you lived up to it! You are Miss Universe 2017! "Words can't describe the joy I am experiencing with you. So extremely proud to be South African! Can’t wait to see what life has in store for you, and what you are going to do with it dear @demileighnp.” The last time a South African was crowned Miss Universe was back in 1978, when Margaret Gardiner won the crown. Apart from Strauss winning Miss World three years ago, Penny Coelen was the first South African to take the title in 1958, followed by Anneline Kriel in 1974. Although several other Miss SAs didn’t win on the international stage, several of htem went far in both the Miss Universe and Miss World pageants. This included Tatum Keshwar, who was second runner-up in the Miss World pageant in 2009, while Tansey Coetzee came in the top five the year before. Sonia Raciti was runner-up in the Miss World pageant in 1999, Naicker was placed in the top five in the same pageant in 1998, while Jessica Motaung was the runner-up in 1997. Businesswoman Basetsana Kumalo (nee Makgalemele) was the first runner-up at Miss World 1994.