The department - notorious for high medical legal bills and failure to pay crucial service providers - was declared a danger to the public purse yesterday when Gauteng Finance MEC Barbara Creecy delivered her medium-term policy budget statement. She said overstaffing and increasing legal claims against the department were concerns. “A major risk to the public purse is the current financial state of the department of health,” she said. “We remain deeply concerned about the extent of medico-legal liability facing the department of health and the threat it poses to the budget for essential services. “We must also restrict appointments to filling critical clinical posts rather than bloating the staff component with unbudgeted-for personnel.” Her call for prudent financial management came after she gave a cash injection of R1.7billion to the health department and R942.6million to the education department. Creecy said the health department’s challenges stemmed from poor internal management, resulting in R1.9 billion of irregular expenditure and R6.9 billion of accruals in the 2016/2017 financial year. She made it clear that the allocations to health and education was due to the increasing number of people in the province who needed healthcare and education. But not all was gloom and doom for the health department. Creecy said an audit she had commissioned in March to root out duplications and identify potential areas of saving money had been concluded. The study, by the Johannesburg Centre of Software Engineering, found that it was no longer necessary for the department to operate its own data storage facility while a similar system was operated by the provincial government. By the end February next year the departmental system would be phased out and the department would join other provincial departments on the provincial government cloud, saving R156m a year, Creecy said. Detailing other cost-saving measures, she said the government had in the past two months, through the introduction of voice-over Internet Protocol managed to reduce the telephone bill. She said an executive council subcommittee appointed by Premier David Makhura, which includes herself and MEC for Health Dr Gwen Ramokgopa, had already developed a turnaround strategy for the health department. Improving corporate governance and having effective  human resource and litigation management were some of the pillars of the strategy. Creecy said that through the close working relationship between health and treasury officials,  significant progress had been made to reduce the number of companies being owed by the health department. “We are in the process of putting together a payment plan over the next five months for our major suppliers,” she said.