While the department has given the municipalities until December 8 to settle their combined R10.7bn debt or face water restrictions and suspensions, it has also pleaded with the Treasury to intervene by stopping the defaulting municipalities' grants. Section 216 of the constitution gives the Treasury powers to withhold funds to any state organ that persistently breaches its financial obligations due to poor management. Should any of the department's options be implemented, they could have a dire impact on millions of residents who would be left with little or no water, while the councils could be brought to their knees as they would not be able to finance their programmes. Gauteng’s Emfuleni Municipality is already feeling the pinch of water restrictions following Rand Water’s decision to implement a 60% reduction of its bulk water supply last week, which led to schools, clinics and hospitals around Sebokeng having to rely on trucked-in water. Emfuleni owes R431.7million to Rand Water, while Merafong and Mogale municipalities have a combined debt of R72m. The DA's shadow MEC for finance in Gauteng, Adriana Randall, has called for the three entities, which also owe Eskom R575m, to be put under administration. “The situation is now beyond control and the provincial government must intervene on behalf of residents who are suffering due to ANC incompetence,” said Randall. Meanwhile, Rand Water, which provides bulk water to 17 municipalities in and around Gauteng, has a hefty bill of R1.4bn, with Johannesburg Metro owing R480.7m to the water board. Topping the list of defaulters are: Limpopo’s Vhembe District Municipality (R642877m). Mpumalanga’s Lekwa  (R450201m) and Msukaligwa (R384958m) local municipalities. Free State’s Maluti A Phofung (R233925m). North West’s Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District Municipality (R195078m). Free State’s Mafube Local Municipality. About 73% of the total debt is more than 60 days old, which is a violation of the Municipal Finance Management  Act that forces councils to settle bills within two months of receiving invoices. Mpumalanga leads water debt with R1bn owing followed by Limpopo at R789m, Free State (R656m), North West (R307m), Eastern Cape (R267m), KwaZulu-Natal (R237m), Northern Cape (R90m), Gauteng (R50m) and Western Cape with R45m. Since 2014 the department had won six court judgments, 59 summonses had been issued, and 121 municipalities had been fingered for illegal collection processes, said department spokesperson Sputnik Ratau. Vhembe District Municipality spokesperson Matodzi Ralushai said their water bill was being scrutinised. “The municipality is disputing the bill and we have asked the department to give us evidence of how they arrived at that amount. That information is still outstanding,” said Ralushai. He said the municipality was experiencing problems in collecting money from consumers and intended installing water meters in rural areas. Limpopo DA leader Jacques Smalle attributed problems in his province to the failure of municipalities to manage their credit control mechanisms, and poor infrastructure that had seen the area losing between 16% to 25% of its water to leaks. “Local municipalities are overburdened financially and administratively and cannot recoup money from consumers to pay to district municipalities... Their credit control is weak, and district municipalities rely on local municipalities to work efficiently,” said Smalle. He also questioned the efficiency of some district municipalities, saying that other such as Makhado, Thulamela and Polokwane local councils were capable of handling their own water affairs. Smalle warned against launching water suspensions, saying they bordered on human rights violations. “The department should also take some of the blame because we have Nandoni Dam in Venda that has cost more than R200m and is being delayed by more than five years,” he said. The Treasury said it had not yet received a formal request regarding the invoking of Section 216(2) of the constitution against any municipality. However, if such a request is received it would be subjected to a formal process for a response, it said. @lindilesifile