Fashionistas gathered at the official launch of Stiefelmann Shoes in Melrose, Joburg, which are Brazilian-designed transitional shoes with a screw heel that allows the wearer to alter the design of the shoe by changing the heel to suit their comfort. Stiefelmann Shoes are aimed at changing the fashion shoe game with this innovation. A woman’s heels can be changed within seconds by a screw fastener which allows quick removing and replacing of the heel. Sue Nxumalo, a local entrepreneur who launched the shoes in South Africa, said she bought these shoes after being advised by her chiropractor to change the shoes she was wearing because they were affecting her health. “A flexible insole and an elastic junction in the vamp allow a closed shoe with a heel to be converted into a flat shoe or visa versa. With six heel height variations, shoe lovers can now have six shoes in one,” said Nxumalo. “When I came across this brand I was on holiday shopping with my son. I was having a dull day. I could not believe when I was introduced to this shoe. "These shoes are medical and so versatile. So I had to go back and negotiate to have this brand in South Africa.” “We are the only and actually the first innovative shoe that lives in South Africa,” said Nxumalo. “It has been a long-time dream to launch this innovative shoe I found in Brazil several years ago. “The shoes are life-changing for us shoe and fashion lovers. The changeable heels easily fit into our handbags, allowing for the heel removal and replacement to be a swift and effortless transition.” Lorato Maphiri told The Star that she was in love with the concept. “Honestly, I’m in love. I can never go a whole day with my heels on. "I also saw it on social media one time and I didn’t think it would come to this country. I thought it was too far. I am very glad that the shoe is here already,” Maphiri said. “The shoe was super soft, you can tell that it is a Brazilian shoe. This is a gift to myself.” The shoes can be ordered from Nxumalo directly, until her website is up and running. The price range for these innovative shoes is between
R1 200 and R1 500 a pair. @Zwane_2li2ls