These thieves are causing numerous blockages in pipes. The city’s member of the mayoral committee for environment and infrastructure services, Nico de Jager, said thieves digging up sewerage lines were causing blockages. He said it was not only dangerous, but was putting the health of residents in great jeopardy. He described it as
“a truly saddening practice”. “This is a sign of the high levels of unemployment which have plagued the South African economy. "We cannot allow the practice to continue as it causes tremendous damage to our existing infrastructure,” he said. Joburg already experiences more than 45000 water leaks in water pipes a year. Johannesburg Water has a shortfall of about R5.8billion to address maintenance and upgrading, said De Jager. “To success-
fully upgrade our sewerage system, we require R435million per annum to replace 231km, R4m for sewer pump station renewals, R280m for wastewater treatment works renewal and R102m for sewer upgrading and extensions. "Unfortunately, with the city’s limited resources, and a general backlog of R178bn across departments, it is not possible to meet the required need. "This is why we must ask every resident to support us by doing their part. As residents, we all have the responsibility to look after shared infrastructure. "We can only turn Johannesburg into a city that works if we all work together,” he said. The vandalism of infrastructure also continues in broad daylight in the suburbs. On Tuesday, the Johannesburg Roads Agency (JRA), together with the Joburg metro police department (JMPD), caught 10 people illegally excavating and removing a 7m copper cable in Morningside, Sandton. Inspectors, who came across an excavation on Rivonia Road, between Outspan and Centre roads, asked the "workers" to show the wayleave - the permission from the city to dig up roads - but the suspects failed to produce any authorisation documents and 10 were arrested. JRA Inspector Steven Mammba was conducting proactive inspections in Morningside when he came across the excavation and reported it to the agency and the JMPD. JRA acting managing director Goodwill Mbatha said: “We are pleased that the proactive measures put in place to address the spate of infrastructure theft and vandalism are bearing fruit. These acts of criminality are a direct sabotage of the city’s efforts and services. "We are grateful to Inspector Mammba for his efforts and quick thinking which led to the arrests. The suspects were taken to Morningside police station and the matter is pending further investigation by the SAPS. "We are appealing to the public to report criminal activity and we advise community members to request a valid wayleave permit from labourers working on state infrastructure. Failure to produce one indicates that the activity is illegal.” The JRA would continue to work closely with the JMPD as part of the city’s infrastructure protection initiatives to combat crime, Mbatha added. Scrapyard owners and community members have been cautioned not to purchase stolen road assets. Residents have been asked to report suspicious activity to the JMPD 24/7 hotline on 011-758-9650. They've been asked to take care of sewer and sanitation infrastructure by appropriately disposing of waste such as cotton buds, nappies, paper and rags. @annacox