Residents of this hostel took to the streets in 2014, dancing and jiggling their naked buttocks on the busy Chris Hani Road in Soweto, making front pages nationally. The residents, mostly women, had had enough of the bucket system in their hostel after they had not been emptied in three months. The protest, which was highly provocative and aggressive, was an opportunity for residents to raise their concerns about poor sanitation in their area. Not much has changed since the protest action, according to both men and women who reside in this hostel. Children as young as two are seen playing around these highly unhygienic toilets during the day and are exposed to a number of diseases. Nkosinathi Mtshali told The Star that the living conditions had not changed since the controversial “bum bucket protest”.  “I’ve been staying here for more than 10 years and there has been no change. There has been very little communication from the councillor about a way forward regarding these toilets. There are a number of diseases that we contract when using these toilets. It’s not safe for our health,” said Mtshali. An elderly resident, Irene Mthembu, echoed these  sentiments, as did a number of other residents. Mthembu said: “I’ve been living here for years and we have had these outside bucket toilets. We don’t want these toilets. We have protested and complained that we don’t want these outside toilets, but nothing has changed. “We are the ones who have to end up cleaning these toilets. The only time that the municipality comes to empty out these toilets is on a Tuesday and Friday,” said Mthembu. “We wash them every day. We were given masks (to cover our mouths), gumboots and chemicals to clean these toilets. Otherwise there is a car that comes twice a week to empty these buckets,” she said. Mthembu told The Star that a number of people have not been able to qualify for newly built homes with flushing toilets just metres away from the hostel. “Sizohlala kanje koze kube nini?  (How long are we going to have to live like this?),” asked Mthembu. A group of young men at the hostel told The Star that
the bucket system toilets were one of many things in the
hostel that affected their health. Mavolovolo Zungu, Buyani Nagubabe, Sanele Sithole and Mlondi Ndomane all said the plastic bucket toilets were unbearable. “When it’s hot we can’t enter the toilet. Besides that, these structures are not stable, someone can push the toilet over. There is no order with these toilets. They need to build concrete toilets for us,” said Ndomane. Department of Water and Sanitation spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said: “We should keep in mind and not forget that South Africa is still a developing country. “This work is still ongoing, and even though South Africa has achieved beyond the previous Millennium Development Goals targets, the new strategic development goals, particularly goal 6, relating to delivery of water and sanitation, the ideals of the national development plan (NDP Vision 2030), married to the African Union Vision 2063, dictate the kind of work that is still outstanding,” he said. By the time of publication, the City of Joburg’s councillor for Region D, ward 24, had not responded to a request for comment regarding the bucket system toilets. @Zwane_2li2ls