But a month before Monyane’s retirement, Thabo, 32, who had cerebral palsy, died. He had been a patient at the Cullinan Care and Rehabilitation Centre (CCRC) for 11 years. He was moved to the Siyabadinga NGO to make space for patients who had been moved from Life Esidimeni institutions to the CCRC, as part of the Gauteng Health Department’s mental health marathon project in which 143 patients died. Thabo died two months after the move and three weeks after Monyane last saw him. Monyane said that when Thabo was moved to Siyabadinga, the facility didn’t have clothes and blankets for the patients. She, with the help of her neighbours, donated the things the centre needed. “Every time I visited him, I would count the months for him. I would tell him that I was going to retire in September and live with him in October,” Monyane told the Life Esidimeni alternative dispute resolution yesterday. In 2016, unlike previous years, Monyane didn’t take Thabo home for the June holidays, as she was admitted to hospital. She hadn’t seen him for three weeks, when she got a call from the institution that Thabo was sick. She went to the centre and found him seriously ill. “I took him home, and while I was bathing him, I noticed he had a big sore on his thigh. “I took him to Steve Biko Hospital, where the doctor said he wouldn’t live. He said there was something wrong with Thabo’s kidneys, because he wasn’t getting enough food and water,” she sobbed. Thabo was moved to Tshwane District Hospital, where he died two days after being taken out of Siyabadinga. “I miss my son. I haven’t accepted his death. I have a lot of questions and no answers. 
I have lost so much,” Monyane said. While Monyane still mourns Thabo’s death, Jacob Sikhakhane is grateful his brother Mduduzi was one of the lucky ones to survive. Mduduzi, who suffers from bipolar disorder, was moved from Life Esidimeni Waverley to Rebafenyi NGO in Pretoria. When he visited Mduduzi at the centre, his brother was hungry and there were goats and sheep roaming the property. He refused to take his medicine, because he said all the patients were given the same medication despite having different disorders. He relapsed and was admitted to hospital. He was moved to several institutions, until settling in Waverley again, from where he escaped. Once he was found, he was transferred to Sterkfontein Psychiatric Hospital, where he is still a patient. “He’s better. Before all of this, he understood his condition, but now he has relapsed,” Sikhakhane said. The hearing resumes on Monday.