Cape Town - The attack nearly cost her husband his life, but it was the emotional scarring from alleged racial abuse that has left them devastated. Gary Adams, his wife Lyndall and their family attended the Perdeberg Winery’s October festival last Saturday, and as they were leaving her husband got into an altercation that left him with a stab wound centimetres away from his lungs. Lyndall said she was afraid she was going to lose him, and they were attacked because of the colour of their skin. “I am not a racist, my husband is not a racist, and we do not teach our children about race. A few times we have encountered and been victims of racism, we have never turned around and become racist. Yet we experienced racism at its worst, so much so that I nearly lost my husband.” She said when her husband needed to relieve himself and the portable toilets were closed, he relieved himself at a nearby drain. When he came to the car where she and her mother were waiting, a white man approached her and started swearing at them and hurling racial slurs. “My mom approached him and asked why he felt it was necessary to speak to us like that. Then he shoved her to the floor and smacked her and that is when my husband intervened.” She said everything from then onwards happened very quickly. The man was joined by at least three other men and after the fight was broken up they discovered her husband had been stabbed in the back. “The wound was perfectly round, so it was not a knife, it was probably the wine flutes we get when we go there… They knew exactly what they were doing and you can imagine how strong the person had to be to do that. They wanted to kill him. If that glass was a bit longer it would have hit his lungs.” Gary said he just remembers being in a lot of pain and shock, and he and his wife were appalled at how the situation was handled by the establishment. “When I am alone I think about it, but I don’t want it to bring me down because I am trying to be strong for my son.” He said he was still in a lot of pain and was not sleeping well because of it. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Perdeberg spokesperson Johan van Dyk said they were not able to comment on the incident as no employees were present and it occurred after festival hours, but they assisted in contacting first aid personnel. “We are not able to confirm that the injuries that occurred were due to a stabbing as the injured person’s medical information is confidential. You can contact ER24’s media department for further information pertaining to his injuries.” Gary said he did not want to lay charges and just wanted to put the incident behind him.  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus