The biggest casualty of the clean-up is police boss Augustine Chihuri - a Mugabe ally - who was set to resign yesterday . Chihuri was booed during Mnangagwa’s inauguration at a packed 60000- seater National Sports Stadium in Harare on Friday, showing how unpopular he had become with the masses, who suffered human rights violations by police under his leadership. All eyes are on Mnangagwa to see if he will announce a leaner and inclusive cabinet that will pull Zimbabwe out of its political and economic morass. He has promised to move Zimbabwe forward and will today be expected to show his commitment to revive the ailing economy and reach out by appointing men and women who have the interests of the people at heart. In the clearest indication yet of his will to extend a hand to the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, Mnangagwa on Friday invited the MDC's Morgan Tsvangirai, Arthur Mutambara, Nelson Chamisa and others to his inauguration ceremony and a state lunch afterwards. And for the first time in 20 years, the British Minister for Africa Rory Stewart visited Zimbabwe and met Mnangagwa for crucial talks to open communication channels with the former coloniser and begin work on lifting sanctions meted out on the regime of former president Robert Mugabe. Mugabe resigned on Tuesday in the face of looking impeachment, ending his 37-year grip on power. When he resigned, British Prime Minister Theresa May immediately promised to work with the new Zimbabwean government. “Yes, Stewart met the president and the meeting was cordial and very encouraging,” said a source close to Mnangagwa, adding that the new leader was very open to talks with Britain and the US to end sanctions and reopen credit lines with the West. Mnangagwa has promised a raft of changes, including establishing a land commission; compensating white farmers who lost their land in the chaotic land reform programme; and fixing the economy, which would aid job creation in a country with more than 90% unemployment. An MDC MP also confirmed yesterday that Stewart also met Tsvangirai, former prime minister in the government of national unity (GNU), and axed former vice-president Joice Mujuru, in what is interpreted in Harare as a sign of Britain’s push for an inclusive transitional government ahead of next year’s elections. Mnangagwa announced in his inauguration speech that the polls would go ahead, despite the opposition calling for electoral reforms to even the playing field. “We don’t know anything about our involvement in a GNU. Mnangagwa hasn’t spoken to Tsvangirai about it yet, but he seems more flexible than Mugabe,” said the MDC. “We will wait and see. We don’t want to jump the gun, but we hope Mnangagwa will live up to his promise of working with Zimbabweans to fix our country collectively.” Last week in Harare, a list circulated of the purported new cabinet, with Tsvangirai as prime minister and Mujuru and Zapu stalwart Dumiso Dabengwa as vice-presidents. But there would have to be a constitutional amendment to create the prime minister position for the MDC firebrand. A few former ministers aligned to Grace Mugabe’s G40, arrested by the army, will not be part of the new government. These include the incarcerated former finance minister Ignatius Chombo, Jonathan Moyo, Mugabe’s nephew Patrick Zhuwawo, Walter Muzembi and Saviour Kasukuwere. Former vice-president Phekezela Mphoko's whereabouts is unknown.