The popularity of the show expanded to Asia and five years down the line it's hitting South African shores. On Wednesday, E! Entertainment hosted the official launch of the local version of the show, which is set to be distinctly different from the international ones. NBC Universal’s Justin Stephenson said they were excited to bring the show to the country. “It builds on the success we've had with other global productions here in South Africa.” The show has partnered with non-profit organisation Dress for Success, which helps women enter the job market confidently by providing them with professional, interview-ready outfits. Tiara Pathon, local executive director of the organisation, said there were 150 branches around the world and that it had been around since 1997.    “The creation of a better world relies on simple acts of kindness. Women still face a lot of hurdles, trying to enter the workspace. The vision for Dress for Success is a world where women feel enabled.” Pathon said the organisation's mission is to provide women with a network of support, professional attire and the development tools to help them thrive in work and in life. The show's launch was held in Sandton City. Hosts Roxy Burger and Kat Sinivasan gave the audience a sneak peek of the 12-episode series. “I was excited because it's about fashion and I love fashion," said Burger. "I didn’t expect the emotional journey we would go on. It truly is more than skin-deep, so I can quite confidently say this is something very special.” The first episode features Feziwe, a dreadlocked biker who overdoes it with the 'tough girl' image. Her friends want her to allow other people to see who she truly is without taking away her true persona. The make-over is quite surprising and the episode takes the viewer on a journey that sees Feziwe go from bold biker to boardroom boss. Sinivasan said he had always thought reality shows were fake. “Being part of the process of creating this show proved to me that it’s real-life stories of people who transform not just on the outside, but on the inside. It was such an incredible project to work on.” At the launch, five recent graduates who were in the audience were chosen for a make-over that would clinch them that much-needed job interview. The young women chose outfits from the E! Pop-up store that had 'pre-loved', refurbished clothes. The store will also be open on November 17 and 18 in Sandton City’s forecourt to maximise the number of Dress for Success beneficiaries, enabling as many women as possible to access outfits that are suitable for job interviews. The public can donate pre-loved clothing and shoes through collection boxes in Sandton City from November 13 to 19. How Do I Look? South Africa will air from Friday, November 17 at 8pm CAT.