Harare - People are being bussed to the airport on Wednesday morning where Emmerson Mnangagwa was to land after fleeing Zimbabwe. The masses were expected to welcome Mnangagwa back home from South Africa where he has been hiding since he fled the country shortly after his sacking.  
Mnangagwa had fled Zimbabwe after learning that he might be arrested and later assassinated. Unconfirmed reports state that the 75-year-old will also be sworn is a president on Wednesday afternoon until Zimbabweans go to elections next year and choose their new president. He had undertaken not to return unless his safety could be guaranteed. When Mugabe resigned on Tuesday after 37 years at the helm, sparking mad celebrations in the country, Mnangagwa decided to return home. While he has been Mugabe's right hand man for decades, for some Zimbabweans, Mnangagwa is the right person for acting president at the moment. Others have been questioning Mnangagwa's new role, saying nothing has actually changed as power will still be in the hands of Zanu-PF, the very same party that oppressed Zimbabweans for years. However, for Victor Phiri, Mnangagwa is the right man for the job now. "He is accepted in foreign countries and he can lure investors back into the country. "He had even acted as a president before so he has the experience. Joyce Mujuru and Dumiso Dabengwa should be vice presidents and Morgan Tsvangirai should be the prime minister." Mujuru used to be the vice president of Zimbabwe but Mugabe fired her in 2014. Dabengwa is the leader of Zimbabwe African People's Union (Zapu). Phiri said Tsvangirai should not be elevated to the presidency yet as he lacks experience. "This will be for a short period of time then people can go and campaign." For Discussion Maodza, this is the beginning of a new era in Zimbabwe. "For so long no one had been able to challenge Mugabe as they were scared of him. The army, the police and the Central Intelligence Organisation had been protecting him." Robert Musokotwanam, who has been unable to find a job, said he and his countrymen were starting a new page. He was also excited about the prospects of having enough to eat and a job "because we don't want to steal from anyone". While it's not known as to what will happen to Mugabe now that he's no longer head of state, Taylor Chikwakwa wants him to be arrested and thrown into prison for the atrocities he committed. "We want him to go to prison even if he's 93 years old. There is someone who's 105 years old in prison that he put there so he can also go." The Star