A teacher in Evaton West, near Sebokeng, said some pupils dropped out when they came back from initiation school in January. “These boys are not attending classes when they come back from initiation school. Most of the time you will find them practising the initiation rituals in the toilets. I don’t know if this is because initiation schools are now a ground of gangsterism, or what. But it seems initiation schools are no longer serving a cultural purpose. They should tell these boys how to respect others, even in the school yard,” he said. One of his pupils disappointed him after completing his rite to manhood. “I had this boy who was brilliant in my class last year, but he changed when he  came home from the initiation school this year. He is now far from average. He is now smoking and dodging classes. I thought he will become something but I don’t see that now. This is very depressing for a teacher. Some of these boys even fight in classes. I don’t know what they are teaching them there. I think there is a need to get rid of initiation schools.” Another teacher in Evaton North said initiation schools had a negative influence on education. “In my school you will even find matrics performing these rituals in the toilets. Clearly they don’t care about their future. We are even afraid to talk to them because they fight us. I saw many of these pupils fighting teachers in classes because they feel they are (now) man enough (not) to be controlled. This shows that these boys are not taught well in the initiation. I believe some of them are going there to get a passport to smoke dagga and nyaope,” he said. Gauteng Department of Education spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga, however, said they had never had a complaint about initiates’ behaviour upon their return from initiation school. “We often hear of these cases in the Eastern Cape, where there is a large number of initiates.” Nkosi*, 17, who will be going to an initiation school soon, believes nothing will change for him after his graduation in January, saying the main purpose of initiation was for maturity. “I am going there to be a man so I can be like other men who are matured. But I will still stick to my principles and dreams when I come back. Unlike other initiates who changed, I will still attend my classes and perform well to finish my matric. I want to be different from other initiates who were changed. I will still behave and respect everyone. Nothing will change me. I’m also inspired by other initiates who participate in the cultural activities in my school, so I will also participate,” he said. However, Molifi Sekhatea, 21, who completed his initiation in 2012, warned Nkosi not be influenced by other initiates at school. Sekhatea was expelled  in 2014 while in Grade 11. “When I came from the initiation school, I joined gangsters who were a bad influence at school. That’s when I messed up my life. I lost respect, bunking classes and fighting teachers. I was not doing my school work and ended up being expelled. I thought I could handle everything on my own. So Nkosi needs to be careful of these  things. Today I regret that. I had my chance but I messed it up,” he said. Ntoko Kolatsoeu said things were no longer the same. “Initiation is our tradition and we must embrace it, but today people are going there just to do nasty things and insult people in the community. We used to learn about respect and responsibilities in the initiation school. Now the bad influence about initiation come from the schools, these boys are a bad influence to each other. That is why our schools are in crisis. The other part which many are not aware of is that initiation school (should) not (be) a ground for brawls. The initiates form gangs to fight each at the initiation schools this is very disrespectful to our culture,” he said. Solomon Mhlaba, director of the African National Healers Association, believes the meaning and value of initiation school have been lost. “Initiation is no longer the same. It has changed. The reason these initiates behave badly in their communities and schools is because they  (their teachers at initiation school) teach them rubbish. “We approached the government but the challenge remains unsolved,” he said. Katinka de Wet, a sociologist at the University of Free State, believes initiation rites are still relevant. “This is part of culture and people have to embrace it. Those who are teaching bad things must be from illegal initiation schools. As long as it doesn’t do any physical harm, then people should embrace it,” she said. Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs spokesperson Legadima Leso believes initiation is relevant. “It has been argued that the initiation practice plays a critical role in building and preparing young people to deal with challenges and pressures in and out of communities. “The initiation rite is an embodiment of the moral values and ideals of communities, hence it is clear that these institutions play a pivotal role in contributing to building and strengthening the social and moral fibre of African communities. “Initiation institutions are of great significance in many communities in South Africa and many societies still see them as honourable and sacred,” Leso said.