This was revealed yesterday by Lucky Sindane, a director in the city’s forensic investigation unit, who confirmed that the three men nabbed for last weekend’s crime in Braamfontein worked for Advanced Projects and People (APP). This comes as a source claimed that this was an act of insurance fraud by APP, as the company is supposedly undergoing liquidation. APP was contracted to install technology infrastructure for the city to manage its own data at the Braamfontein facility, which Sindane said would save Joburg millions that were paid to other service providers. Last weekend, criminals entered the data centre after the security alarm had been disabled and the guards had mysteriously gone missing and R2m worth of copper cables were stolen. Three men - aged 25, 26 and 29 - were arrested on Thursday and Friday in Tembisa, Ekurhuleni, in an operation between the SAPS, the metro police and the city’s investigation unit. Mayor Herman Mashaba asserted at the time that the city believed this crime to have been an inside job. Sindane said the arrests proved this could have been the case. He refused to be drawn on the insurance fraud claims against APP, but emphasised that this was an act of sabotage where the aim was not just the theft of the copper cables. “If the young men we arrested last week work for the contractor, the question should be: Was their boss aware of their intentions to sabotage this project or not?” Sindane said. “But we can confirm that our investigations are still ongoing. We are going to make more arrests this week.” The stolen cables were connected to two power generators which were recently purchased and in the process of being tested. Sindane said the contract with APP was to end next month when the project was expected to have been completed for the data centre to be operational by January, but this deadline had been scuppered. APP chief executive Vinoden Govender said his company had yet to be briefed by the city and the police about the involvement of its employees in the brazen theft. Govender repudiated the allegations that this crime was carried out by his employees to net the company insurance money, and denied APP was undergoing liquidation. “We have investigators on it (the break-in). We have commissioned our own forensic investigator, and he has been dealing with the matter. We are awaiting the results of the investigation,” APP’s chief executive said. The company’s spokesperson, Gavin Ramoroesi, confirmed that the three suspects were employed by APP. He added that APP’s offices were also burgled on Wednesday night, but the company was not sure if the two crimes were related. “When we arrived on Thursday, we found our offices burgled and several computers were taken, and some petty cash was stolen from Mr Govender’s office,” he said. On whether the company was worried about the reputational damage caused by its employees being allegedly involved in illicit activities, Ramoroesi conceded that the data-centre break-in had affected APP. @khayakoko88