The family were trying to establish what had happened on Saturday night when a Ford Focus and a VW Polo collided at the Alpine Road intersection. Peggy Mdlalose, the aunt of Andile Wiseman Masondo, 34, a passenger in the Polo, said the family saw debris from the collision strewn on the pavement and in a canal. She said they prayed at the scene and then left to make 
funeral arrangements. Mdlalose said the four travelling in the car were close friends from KwaDabeka A-section. The driver of the Polo, Mzamo Zulu, is in a stable condition in Addington Hospital. He was still in shock and did not want to speak about the incident, said Mdlalose. Masondo, Nontobeko Pretty Sindane, 42, and Sylvia Mouriri Motsilisi, 40, lost their lives in the crash.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Police said the driver of the Focus would be questioned. They were also verifying an address he had given them on the night. A 15-year-old boy who was in the Focus was discharged from hospital. A witness told police that the two cars, had passed him on Umgeni Road heading towards Durban. He remembers the one overtaking the other and then watching the Focus crash into the Polo and sliding off the road, dropping 10m into the storm culvert. The witness’s car was hit by debris, damaging the windscreen and bonnet. Mdlalose said they were returning home from Blue Lagoon after attending a friend’s party. Masondo had two children - a 10-year-old son and 3-year-old daughter - and two sisters. Mdlalose described him as quiet and friendly. He worked as a driver, moving cars from car carrier ships to warehouses in Durban Harbour. Mdlalose said the family was against drag racing, even in the townships. “They are doing this at night when there is no supervision from law enforcement agencies. The police and authorities must act,” Mdlalose asked. A memorial service would be held in KwaDabeka on Thursday. Masondo would be laid to rest in Vryheid on Saturday. A case of culpable homicide is being investigated by Mayville SAPS. Daily News