With music blaring from speakers, scores of Zimbabweans danced and sang on an intersection of Claim Street in Hillbrow last night. The celebrating crowd shutdown Claim, a usually busy road connecting Hillbrow to central Johannesburg. Taxis and cars took turns spinning in another part of Hillbrow, much to ululations and whistling of excited Zimbabweans. “Zim free at last,” read one placard hoisted in the streets of Hillbrow. Another poster proclaimed “independence at last”. Zimbabwean flags flew high too. These two sets of celebrations captured the mood in Hillbrow and neighbouring suburbs of Johannesburg dominated by Zimbabweans. The celebrations kicked off soon after news broke out that Robert Mugabe had stepped down as president of Zimbabwe. The crowd grew bigger by the minute, as both the young and old came out to express their happiness over Mugabe’s fall. Holding the highest position in the land for 37 years, Mugabe took blame for a situation that saw millions of Zimbabweans fleeing the country. Zimbabweans are believed to make up a huge chunk of the 1.7 million foreign nationals living in South Africa. Many of those celebrating in Hillbrow believed Mugabe’s departure will usher in a new era of stable and improved economy. The hopeless economy forced them to cross to South Africa, they said. “He’s the one who messed up the country’s economy,” said Nqobizitha Tiwane, 38, who was part of the celebrations in Hillbrow. “We came to South Africa in droves because there were no longer jobs in our country. I’m confident people will return to invest in Zimbabwe now that Mugabe is gone. Industries will be revived and there will be jobs,” he said. Judging by the excitement in the streets of Zimbabwe and Johannesburg, it was clear Zimbabweans are hopeful Mugabe’s resignation would mean real change, Tiwane said. “We don’t care if Zanu-PF remains in power or they go back to the government on national unity. What we want is change. “This is our independence day. Our Zimbabwe has changed for good,” he said.  Like many of those celebrating, Tiwane said he was ready to go back home. Nobert Ndlovu said his countrymen have suffered for a long time in South Africa. “Job opportunities will now open up (back home). “We will get jobs,” he said. “We’ve been struggling for a long time. We’re grateful to soldiers, our heroes, for removing the president.” After not setting foot home for 24 years, Thandazani Mazibuko said she was now looking forward to going to Bulawayo. Her children have never been to the country too. “I hated going back home because of Mugabe. I’ll now go show my children where I’m from. Things will now be fine in Zimbabwe.” Jonathan Dube and his wife Ashley were seen loading their belongings to a van in Hillbrow, while also taking part in the celebrations. They were going for good, they said. “Mugabe has abused us for a long time. We’re happy he’s out,” said Jonathan, who arrived in Johannesburg seven years ago. The couple’s two-year-old son was travelling to Zimbabwe for the first time since birth. “I’m going to show my parents my wife and my child,” Jonathan said. Said Ashley: “I’m thankful Mugabe is out. I wish he’d not wake up anymore. My son is going to Zimbabwe for the first time.” Others were celebrating more than just Mugabe’s departure, but that he went out without bloodshed. Fear engulfed Zimbabwe when it emerged last week that the army took over power. “What makes me happy the most is that Mugabe went out peacefully, without any bloodshed. I thought there would be bloodshed when this thing started. I’m glad that didn’t happen,” said Similo Hadebe, 35. And now her plea to Mugabe is: “May you give blessings to whoever will take over.”