The Star team visited the rank to find out if users of  toilets at the rank are getting their money’s worth since they have to pay. Toilet users at the taxi rank are charged roughly R2 for using the toilets, with each user given two folds of toilet paper once they’ve paid. Upon entry, we found one toilet cubicle had no door, one was unhinged and another had filth on the floor. Many females use these toilets, which have filthy mirrors and floors. Due to the high demand, the ladies’ toilets often have a queue. Almost none of the toilets have flushing handles requiring users to dunk their hands into the cistern to activate the toilet lever.  Bakhithi Mahlangu, 25, said although she used the toilets at the rank, she didn’t think it was fair to pay R2 because of the horrible conditions. “Most of the time, these toilets are dirty. You often find sanitary-wear wrappers on the floor, water and muddy footsteps, and it isn’t a pretty sight. I use these toilets only when I am very pressed and have no choice, because home or the place I am going to might be a bit of a distance away,” said Mahlangu. While hundreds of commuters use the public facilities, others blatantly refuse to pay for a facility when nature calls. A 22-year-old man who asked to remain anonymous told The Star he didn’t have R2 to use the toilet and would rather find a bush or a corner around one of the buildings in town. “I honestly don’t see the point. Why must I pay to use the toilet? Nah, bro,” he said. Department of Water and Sanitation spokesperson Sputnik Ratau told The Star that toilets had been placed in public spaces in the CBD, such as ranks and malls, but it was the responsibility of the owners of these infrastructures to determine how their clients will use their facilities. In response to individuals who commit crimes by urinating in public, Ratau said: “This is about the need for behavioural changes, which cannot be regulated. The implementation of by-laws remains the realm of local government, and also, any illegal activities must be responded
to by the law enforcement agencies.”