The foundation runs a daily programme which consists of dance, computer and music classes, as well as a sewing programme, and offers counselling to the youth of the area. There are roughly 300 participants and the number increases to 400 during the holidays. Ethel Munyai, programme manager and a social worker at the foundation, said the main challenge was getting parents involved with the affairs of the youth, and that they burdened the foundation with all the issues. “You sometimes realise that a child is not fine emotionally and send letters home or ask the kids to bring their parents, but parents are 'too busy'. "It's impossible for us to offer counselling to the children without the permission of their parents, and in most instances, they leave everything on our shoulders,” said Munyai. Another issue she brought to light was the fact that many of children could not read before they attended the programme. Despite those challenges, she said she had also witnessed the improvement in the lives of 29 former volunteers who have now secured employment. Rendani Munyai, who is a participant in the programme, said that since she joined the programme, her maths and Afrikaans results had improved a lot. “It gives learners an opportunity to get all the support and assistance they need. You are given a chance to go through anything you did not understand in class. "I would definitely encourage all the kids in Hillbrow to start coming, so that they can forget about peer pressure and rather focus on building themselves,” said the 15-year-old. Puseletso Phoofolo, the project leader, said though she was impressed with the developments of the programme, the library was still under construction, and she urged the public to donate funds or any curriculum books that would assist in bettering the young future leaders of the Outreach Foundation. One of the full-time volunteers - a football coach, who did not want to be named - said he had been a volunteer for nearly three years, despite having no stipend or a steady income. “The main challenge is that many of the kids come from broken homes and live below the poverty line. We help the kids do their homework and focus on being productive in life,” he said. According to him, the programme also helped children to rebuild themselves. It instilled discipline and created a safe haven for them.