When Mapaseka Koetle isn’t busy mastering her role as the conniving Dintle on e.tv soapie Scandal, she is putting her MC and judging skills to good use. Earlier this month, Koetle MCed the semi-final round of the Miss Soweto pageant, now in its 38th year. For the last two years she has been part of the judging panel. “It was great to be on the other side and experience other parts of this pageant. As an actor, I am used to performing and being on stage. As an MC, it was great, I enjoyed being in my element.” Koetle’s involvement in the pageant is to advocate for women empowerment. “Some people have this perception that pageants are all about beauty and thin-figured women. Pageantry to me is all about women being given the platform to embrace themselves and show off everything that they have to offer – physically, mentally and aesthetically.” She said that as a judge, she was looking for a young woman who was smart, graceful and confident in herself. SKY IS THE LIMIT: Mapaseka Koetle with Miss Soweto 2016 Nthabiseng Koetle. Picture: Supplied “Someone who has a high self-esteem and takes care of herself in all aspects. The lady also has to show that she cares about the community she is from; after all, the winner of the pageant will be an ambassador of Soweto.” Koetle said that through the pageant, the winner would be given the opportunity to achieve her dreams. She would have access to great expertise and professional training, which would give her skills that would benefit her beyond the pageant. The winner will walk away with prizes worth R100 000 and will become the ambassador for White Star maize meal. White Star marketing manager Mokhele Makhothi said: “The panel includes health practitioners, life coaches, fashion and beauty gurus, and entertainment personalities, who will all be hosting workshops for the ladies ahead of the finals. They will gain new skills that will empower them not only for the duration of the competition, but for their future endeavours.” The message Koetle hopes Miss Soweto will send to people is that women of all shapes and sizes should be comfortable in their own skin. The advice she has for the finalists is: “Stay strong and keep your head up high. Mostly remember to always be yourself throughout the process. Being confident in who you are will ultimately make you shine and leave an impression with the judges.” Koetle said everyone who would be attending the event would experience professionalism at its best. “It will definitely be worth the wait. The professionalism and standards of this event are on par with bigger events such as Miss South Africa, and we look forward to bringing that experience to Soweto residents,” she said. Various training workshops are being held for the finalists to polish their chances of taking home the title. The 40 finalists who made it into the semi-finals were then cut down to 20 for the finals, which will take place on November 25 at the Soweto Theatre in Jabulani.