From early mornings to midday, the evening and even the graveyard shift, he has managed to keep listeners entertained with his quirky humour and extensive musical knowledge. But it seems his fans want to wake up to him, as yesterday he returned to host YFM’s breakfast show. The station’s head of programming, Tumelo Diaho-Monaheng, said through “overwhelming listener engagement” they decided to reinstate him as the morning show host. “As a radio station, we exist because of our listeners,” she said. “The change comes from our extensive and thorough research, which took into account the current make-up of the Gauteng radio market and how YFM uniquely forms part of this.” She said YFM takes their relationship with listeners seriously and are committed to giving them what they want. Diaho-Monaheng added that DJ Ankletap, whose real name is Bryce Clarke, appeals to the audience. “We are excited about Ankletap’s move to breakfast, he has a natural and easy connection with listeners.” The broadcaster’s career started with his big radio break on UJ FM in 2009. He was such a hit that his talent was spotted by the people at YFM. This soon saw him hosting their graveyard shift. Clarke, also known as “Malume”, quickly rose up the ranks and started hosting the Tap 
Mansion, YFM’s then midday show. He first hit the big time in 2014 when he secured the prime time morning slot. But after changes at the radio station, Clarke was moved to the evening show with Smash Afrika, whose real name is Afrika Mdutyulwa, taking over the breakfast show. Now, after about a year and a half, listeners can once again wake up to DJ Ankletap. This will see him competing against broadcasting heavyweights who host different local commercial radio shows. They include 5FM’s Roger Goode, 947’s Anele Mdoda, Metro FM’s DJ Fresh and Somizi, as well as Jacaranda FM’s Martin Bester and Tumi Morake. But Clarke is up to the challenge and insists he wants to help people start their day the right way. “The breakfast show is where we set the tone for the rest of the day,” he said. “I’ve always believed that it’s important to make people feel good as they start their day. “There’s no greater feeling than knowing that listeners support what I do.” Smash Afrika has also since yesterday taken over DJ Ankletap’s evening show on YFM. Diaho-Monaheng added that YFM’s reshuffling forms part of the station’s drive to reinforce its legacy as the country’s “leading voice of youth culture on the airwaves”. “YFM is celebrating 20 years of being the voice of young people, as well as empowering and entertaining youth in Gauteng. “An apt way to celebrate this legacy was to listen to the voices of our listeners,” she said. @Karishma_Dipa