This is as 2018 is expected to kick off with a bang with a local version of an international dance show. Dancing With The Stars South Africa is set to premiere on M-Net early next year. Although the judging panel, as well as the celebrity cast who will set the dance floor alight as they compete for the grand prize are still under wraps, the hosts of the television programme have been announced. Musical theatre actor, dancer and model Chris Jaftha will present the the local reality dance show together with radio and television presenter Tracey Lange. Jaftha told The Star he was up for the hosting challenge and excited that it would be broadcast live. “I’m thrilled to be a part of what is to be a first for M-Net and a format that has entertained audiences across the globe for years,” said Jaftha. “I still don’t think we’ve grasped how big it’s going to be.” He said he was also looking forward to working with Lange. Jaftha is no stranger to the limelight, as among his accolades, he has been voted as Mzansi’s Sexiest Man, and is a seasoned model, dancer, musical theatre performer and actor who has been in the business for more than 10 years. Meanwhile, Lange said she was ready to perform her hosting duties as she too had several years of experience in the industry. She currently hosts her hugely popular radio show on Heart FM, and has been a presenter on kykNET’s magazine show Bravo! for the past three years. “Hosting Dancing with the Stars SA is better than a dream come true and I feel that it’s made for me: a show that entertains and allows us to make people happy through the magic of dance,” she said. “Viewers will also get to glimpse a side of our favourite local celebrities that we never get to see.” The glamorous, body-twisting, fox-trotting, cha-cha-cha-rrific extravaganza will be broadcast live from February 4. It will see 12 untrained local celebrities being partnered with highly skilled professional Latin and ballroom dancers as they compete for top dance honours in the local version of the BBCWorldwide format show. South Africa is one of 50 countries around the world that have been granted a licence to have their own version of the hit show. M-Net’s head of publicity Lani Lombard said they were thrilled about the show airing in the country with its own local cast. “M-Net is leaping with excitement about creating this glitzy, classy and fun show for the enjoyment of our viewers,” she said. “Dancing with the Stars oozes all of the glamour, drama and magical moments that M-Net 101 has become known for.” The celebrity dancers as well as the judging panel will be announced shortly.