As an advocate for ‘body positivity’ local actress, television presenter and DJ Thando Thabethe tries her hand in a underwear and shapewear range, called ‘Thabooty’s’. The much anticipated range was launched at the vibrant venue overlooking the city of joburg, Randlords with local celebrities such as Somizi “SomGaga” Mhlongo, stylish wardrobe stylist Tshepi Vundla, local djs PH and Ms Cosmo and Farieda Metsileng, commonly known as Pharoahfi. This marks the beginning of a new era for women of all shapes, sizes, colours and creeds, providing a new calibre of comfort, style and support not currently found in off-the- rack stores. Thabooty’s underwear and shapewear provides a new outlook on shapewear, with sexy, appealing garments. Somizi. Picture: Dimpho Maja Thabethe said that the idea to start an underwear and shapewear range was inspired by her struggles to find off-the- rack shapewear that was both appealing to the eye as well as functional. “I wanted to create something women wouldn’t be ashamed to wear, and something that would meet my functional needs. Whether it was to even out, control or contour, I needed something that wouldn’t roll down my body or make me feel like I was wearing a blanket underneath my clothes,” said Thabethe. Thando Thabethe. Picture: Dimpho Maja “Looking at what I found wrong with the underwear and shapewear I found, they were too thick, too lumpy. If felt like I was wear a blanket underneath my clothes or I would be sweating and you can't even breathe. The idea was to find breathable and comfortable underwear that was also functional and sexy,” said Thabethe. Bontle Modiselle. Picture: Dimpho Maja. One of the local guests who loved the concept by Thabethe was, Tshepi Vundla who told The Star that it was great that she was representing the ‘black girl magic’. 
“All props to her and congratulations. "Seeing black girls do something great is awesome, especially in field that is not often done. I think she the first in SA in terms of the ‘it girls’ to make a range of underwear and shapewear,” said Vundla. Tshepi Vundla . Picture: Dimpho Maja Vundla said: “ In terms of women embracing their sexuality, ‘free the nipple’ as long as you are comfortable. People think I am small, but I am even a believer in body shaper things, especially if I am wearing a tight fitting dress.” The range will be available on ThandoThabethe.com and lovers of the underwear and shapewear can pre-order the lingerie, which will be available at affordable prices of R300-R500 a piece. Thando Thabe's underwear launch. Picture: Dimpho Maja This range epitomises the term “fashion forward”, featuring items one may even dare to don as outerwear and thus the launch trended with the hashtag #IAmWoman. This was to celebrate iconic women as well as the visual representation of women, according to Thabethe. Thando Thabe's underwear launch. Picture: Dimpho Maja She added that she hoped to impart her own philosophies around women practicing self love, reclaiming their bodies and being comfortable in their skin while also disposing of thefallacy that women dress for men. Thando Thabe's underwear launch. Picture: Dimpho Maja The Star