Some of these facilities opened for only a few months, but others, like African Calabash Lodge in Tzaneen, Limpopo, have been able to stand the test of time. At the weekend, this three-star lodge won the best two-star category at the Lilizela Tourism Awards held in Sandton. African Calabash manager Zakhile Mabunda said when the business started, they did not think it would be a successful lodge. “The business started as a shuttle service in 2010, especially for the World Cup. We then added the lodge because there was a big demand,” he said. Mabunda said the lodge aims to raise awareness and promote Tsonga culture. “What makes us different is that we are interested in promoting African culture. We want people to be aware of Tsonga culture,” he said. The lodge is nicely situated to promote some of the best things that Tzaneen has to offer. It offers tours  to the nearby Muti Wa Vatsonga Museum, where visitors can learn more about Tsonga practises and traditions. “We also offer tours to the Tzaneen Dam and we also take people to see baobab trees. The other thing that makes us different is that unlike some other places, we offer our visitors a taste of local Tsonga food. “We offer people food such as mopani worms and umqombothi (African beer), and we also give them a taste of the marula fruits because we have a lot of them in the region.” On winning the prestigious award, Mabunda said: “This only means we have to push harder as a lodge. All of our hard work is paying off but we still have to push harder. The award shows that even if you start from the ground, your hard work will pay off.” Other winners on the night included Lebo’s Soweto Backpackers, which won best three-star backpacking accommodation, and the uMhlanga-based and luxurious Oyster Box for best five-star hotel. But accommodation facilities were not the only thing that was honoured on the night. Ndebele artist Esther Mahlangu was inducted into the new Hall of Fame category.  Mahlangu, who began painting when she was 10, has raised the status of traditional Ndebele painting across the world. She has been commissioned to paint BMW cars and bottles of Belvedere Vodka, among other brands. Recently, she was honoured with a mural in New York City. The tribute was painted in Tribeca by New York-based artist Imani Shanklin Roberts. Crossing Franklin Street and West Broadway’s Citi Bike station, the painting spans a two-lane road and features Ndebele symbols. For next year’s awards, a new category - the We Do Tourism Award - will be launched and the winner will be decided by the public. Tourism Minister Tokozile Xasa said: “We’re looking for everyday tourism heroes, everyday tourism champions from all walks of life.  “Any South African can nominate someone they believe is worthy of the award. The nominees can be in the tourism industry or any other field.” Xasa praised the nominees for helping encourage tourism. “Being in any business, including the tourist business, is not easy,” she said. “It requires hard work and tenacity. It requires vision and flexibility. These awards give these businesses a chance to be recognised and acknowledged.”