According to reports, Mofokeng had been sent a naked picture of the girl after befriending her, which he then inadvertently sent to one of his WhatsApp groups. The SACP in Gauteng became the latest party to call for action against the errant mayor - notorious for allegedly blowing taxpayers' money on KFC and hotel bills - over and above his suspension from his job as mayor. Read: Officials get free luxury ride at taxpayer’s expense Outrage over R50m expenditure on unfinished park Mayor spent R1.7m on KFC and hotels SACP Gauteng secretary and MEC for Infrastructure Development Jacob Mamabolo said his party was shocked that the alleged incident occurred “shortly after the party’s national rally of the 2017 Red October Campaign that was focused on the struggle against gender-based violence". “We are deeply concerned that the Emfuleni executive mayor Simon Mofokeng has been the subject of a series of controversies that reflect false and decaying consciousness that borders on contempt for ethical, moral and exemplary leadership "His leadership has also been the subject of a similar and consistent series of disreputable moral postures, based on allegations of misuse and abuse of public funds,” Mamabolo said. He urged the ANC to involve the SACP in bringing disciplinary charges against Mofokeng. Gauteng ANC spokesperson Motalatale Modiba said a council meeting would be held soon where an acting mayor would be appointed. On Tuesday, Gauteng MEC for Social Development Nandi Mayathula-Khoza told the Gauteng Provincial Legislature in her member’s statement that the provincial cabinet had launched an investigation into sexual violence claims against Mofokeng. “On Monday, the special cabinet task team visited the home of the girl learner with the aim of getting facts and supporting her and the family. "The family have applied for a protection order to ensure the alleged perpetrator stops contacting her. "The community safety MEC has also apprised us that a criminal case has now been opened and is under investigation,” Mayathula-Khoza said. Earlier, the DA attacked the ANC for only putting Mofokeng on suspension instead of also removing him as ANC regional chairperson in Sedibeng. DA spokesperson in Emfuleni Kingsol Chabalala said placing Mofokeng on leave was "a slap in the face of all victims of sexual abuse". The Star