That was the boerewors and plastic outfit worn by celeb and shock queen Skolopad at the 2017 Feather Awards, on Thursday night in Johannesburg. Lady Gaga’s dress, made from raw meat, which she wore to the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards, caused a global stir. And while the wors outfit was still trending on social media some 24 hours later, it was Durban’s Zodwa Wabantu who stole the “Drama Queen of the Year” award from Skolopad. Both were nominated in the category and the high-flying celebs are known for their public spats. Wabantu made headlines this year when she appeared at the Durban July in a tight little black number sans panties and Thursday night’s emerald green dress was all about daring and baring once again. Skolopad, who describes herself on Twitter as a “dancer, performer and House kwaito” artist, donned the raw wors dress and, unlike Wabantu, the wors was strategically placed. A charcoal bag was her main accessory. Skolopad told reporters at the event that she “wasn’t interested in any beef” but just wanted wors. In Wabantu’s acceptance speech for the Drama Queen of the Year, she fired a shot at Skolopad, labelling her as “trailer”. This was seen as payback after Skolopad described Wabantu as “DJ Tira’s trailer” last month. But by Friday, Wabantu dialled the rhetoric back ever so slightly, saying she and Skolopad “were good”. “She greeted me and I greeted her, and she congratulated me on winning the award. We are okay,” she told The Independent on Saturday. On winning the Drama Queen title, Wabantu said: “I’m so happy being the drama queen. I entertain people, I never hurt anyone, but I am vocal and outspoken. DJ Tira chose my outfit and I’m learning from him. Whatever the outfit, I am the winner. “I’m after money and I’m not shy to say it. In this world, you have to make as much money, as soon as you can. I don’t play, I work hard,” said Wabantu. She has just returned from London and confirmed she’s travelling to the US and Australia in February. It was the ninth year of the annual Feather Awards ceremony, which is also used to highlight issues faced by the LGBTQI community, including “correctional rape” and gender-based violence. Singer Kelly Khumalo and transgender activist Ricki Kgositau both won two awards. Khumalo took Best Styled of the Year and Fag Hag of the Year, while Kgositau won Role Model of the Year and African Feather of the Night. The ever-stylish Basetsana Kumalo won Socialite of the Year, while All Access Mzansi host K Naomi won Hot Chick of the Year, and Fundis presenter Fezile Makhanya took Hunk of the Year. Meanwhile, as the two queens of drama trended on social media, with comments such as “Lady Gaga and Skolopad - same WhatsApp group”, SA’s Braai Master, Justin Bonello, quipped that the perfect choice of boerewors for Skolopad’s wors creation would have to be game. “You would have to be good with game to wear that,” he said.