The owner of the shisa-
nyama is apparently “untouchable” and has family ties with a top city boss. A number of Berea residents said the new eatery played booming loud music  until around 3am on weekends and the metro police did nothing when they complained. The residents said cars were parked illegally on the road and the eatery became a nightclub during weekends. The shisanyama is owned by Nkululeko Sithole, a Durban businessman allegedly related to former Durban Tourism head, Phillip Sithole. Both Sitholes denied they are related, but socialites and several sources within the city  claimed the two were brothers. The Sunday Tribune has also established that the eatery was registered in August, just days before it was contracted by the city to host pre-parties to promote the controversial Essence Festival, which Durban ratepayers paid R95million for. The eatery has since hosted political heavyweights,  eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede and DA KZN leader Zwakele Mncwango, among them. Nkululeko Sithole, denied he was being favoured and reiterated that he was not related with the city boss. “I know Phillip as a city official, there is nothing more to that than being friends. As Africans when you share a common surname, you develop that brotherhood, but that does not mean he is my biological brother. He has nothing to do with my business,” he said. “I think people have a vendetta against me because I am successful, I am seen as a threat to them.” He said he had a business licence to sell alcohol and for entertainment until midnight. He admitted he had been approached by the organisers to open his place in time for the Essence Festival. “Durban Tourism is about that, they support new establishments, and even those who are well established can tell you the same thing,” he said. The businessman said he was running a legitimate  business and he was concerned that  residents had started circulating a petition calling for it to be shut down. When approached for comment, Phillip Sithole, head of the business support, tourism and markets unit in eThekwini, diverted queries to Durban Tourism spokesperson, Sbu Zondi, who said there was a set criteria for selecting venues for  events. He said they targeted places  identified by the city’s urban rejuvenation plan, such as the Berea, Lower Morningside and Point, for investment. “We welcome and support businesses that invest in these areas as they rejuvenate economic participation, contribute to urban renewal and help to make these areas safe. “Black-owned entities are supported by ensuring that they receive the benefits of hosting major events hosted by the city,” he said. He defended the Sitholes and said the allegations against them were intended to ultimately close down the business and  tarnish their image. Meanwhile, the residents said they were affected by the noise levels and said young people studying for exams at schools and universities were especially affected. “When I go to work on a Monday morning I feel like a zombie because of staying up all night thanks to the loud music. The place has become a law unto itself. Weekends are a nightmare for the residents,” said one resident, Kishore Inderlall. “There are also school and college students living in the area who need to learn for exams but cannot do so, because of the noise.” When he complained to the  metro police about the loud music and the illegally parked cars, they were not towed or fined, instead reflective cones were placed on the road by the police. Another resident  had written a letter to the city but to date nothing had been done. eThekwini municipality spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said  the eatery had a legitimate operating licence. “We are aware of complaints by residents and metro police officers have been attending to all reported incidents at the establishment. We will continue to monitor the area and serve contravention notices if deemed necessary,” said Mthethwa. She said according to city by-laws, “no person may cause any disturbance or impairment of the convenience or peace of any person from Sunday to Thursday between 9.30pm to 7am; and from Friday to Saturday between 12am to 8am. Mthethwa said there were strict penalties in place for those found in contravention of the by-law. SUNDAY TRIBUNE