Should people be allowed to smoke cannabis in the privacy of their homes? If yes, how will they be protected from being targeted by police officers when they procure the cannabis? These are some of the questions the Constitutional Court justices had to contend with yesterday when hearing about the use of cannabis for cultural, religious, medical and recreational purposes. The NPA and six government departments including police, health and trade and industry brought the matter to the Constitutional Court in an effort to appeal against an order by the Western Cape High Court allowing people to smoke the cannabis in their homes. Gerald Prince argued that the Western Cape order still made him a target for the police.  “Even when I am allowed to smoke in my home, I am not allowed to cultivate it. I get prosecuted for planting one of the country's biggest resources," he said. “This order still allows me to be victimised. The high that the criminal justice system poses to me is more harmful than cannabis.” Prince argued that cannabis was not banned because of health issues, otherwise other substances would also be outlawed. “It is common cause that cigarettes are the number one killer. The State allows you the right to drink yourself to death and to smoke yourself to cancer, so they should also allow us to smoke cannabis. Equality demands it,” argued Prince, who was representing himself. And to prove the point, members of the Rastafarian community sang and lit up joints outside the court. An act that, according to counsel for the State advocate Thomas Bokaba, placed a huge burden on the health system. “It has also been linked to crime and domestic violence. Cannabis is different from the other substances in that it affects the brain. It causes psychosis and schizophrenia - especially in young people.” Bokaba also said it was also hard to regulate the potency of cannabis. Dagga Party founder Jeremy Acton said the right to smoke cannabis at home infringed on his rights of association. “This doesn’t allow me to integrate with society like someone who smokes cigarettes,” Acton said. He also argued that he could be targeted by police while he went to buy the cannabis that he intended to consume at home. “My rights are only protected when I am at home and not in my car or if the police search me,” he said. Also part of the case was the so-called dagga couple, Myrtle Clarke and Julian Stobbs. The two have a case in the high court in Pretoria calling for the legalisation of cannabis. Their case has been postponed, waiting for the decision of the Concourt case. The Concourt judgment was reserved.