Fans of the crazy two will get to experience them at their best as they return from "semi-retirement" thanks to Savanna and Comedy Central. Speaking to The Star recently about their return from hibernation in Bronkhorstspruit, they said they were eager to give the audience a good time. “This show is also different because the last time we did a show George W Bush was ‘presingdent’ of the US and at the time we really did think: ‘Well as far as stupidity goes, they’ll never Trump that!’ We were wrong and so we had to come back and say something about it. Also, Jacob ‘Zumba’,” said Twakkie, the character famously played by Rob van Vuuren. Louw Venter, who plays Corne, said this show would definitely be different. “For one thing, it is not a show by Jurie Els. Because then it would be in Australiandia and it would also be k**. This show is not that. It is Most Amazing, in fact, possibly even more than most amazing. That is what is different. Also, it is brand new and full of new materials.”  If you are familiar with their old TV show - The Most Amazing Show - you’ll know exactly what to expect at this one-night only comedic affair. Twakkie promised the show will be the best night of the audience’s “human” life and a reason to carry on until the apocalypse, “which will probably be on the Tuesday after the show”. Corne added: “Just know there will be some old favourite things and a whole lot of brand new amazingness.” Asked if the duo would ever go back into “retirement” or have more once-off shows, Corne said: “There will be any more shows - some of which will actually be at retirement villages - so I guess both of those options are the truth. Believe it, because it’s true. I love you,” said Corne. Twakkie insisted there will not be any other shows. “Probably not. This is a once-off. So you better take advantage of it because there will never be another chance. Mostly because of the apocalypse on Tuesday.” The duo said it took a very special show to get them out of the caravan and back on stage. “And this is that show.” So if you are ready for a dose of this crazy  one that will make you hold on tight to your underpants, tickets are available at Webtickets. The show is on December 8 at the Wits Theatre.