Pinetown, from Westonaria on the West Rand, applied again this year and was successful, putting him one step closer to realising his dreams. Coetzee, one of the country’s top designers, awarded bursaries to 19-year-olds Pinetown and Patrick Ferguson, from Howick in KwaZulu-Natal, at the North West School of Design in Klerksdorp at the weekend. Pinetown will study towards fashion communication and buying, while Ferguson walked away with the fashion design bursary. The bursaries have a combined value of R345000 and include personal mentorships by Coetzee and internships at his studio. Pinetown and Ferguson also received sewing machines from Bernina to the value of R45000. “Fashion is where I belong. It is an opportunity to change the world with my perspective. Fashion has been my thing since I was two. My mother tells me stories of how I would suggest shades of lipstick and eyeshadow for her to wear, and which shoes she should pick to suit her outfit for work. When I was eight, I remember sketching out my first autumn/winter collection,” Pinetown said. Coetzee said he was impressed with the progress Pinetown had made since he applied for the bursary last year. “The improvement in what he was able to deliver was measurable,” Coetzee said. Pinetown and Ferguson would receive three-year bursaries. Their qualifications would allow them to enrol for a four-year Licentiateship in Fashion, which was the highest international fashion qualification available in South Africa, Coetzee said. Pinetown started sewing at the age of five and has been designing matric farewell dresses since 2011. “Fashion was a big part of my childhood, and it often made me feel out of place because I didn't dress like my peers. I didn't have the same interests, but as I grew weary of societal opinions, I cared less, and fashion became an escape for me,” Pinetown said. Ferguson said fashion design was a childhood ambition. He designed his first garment - a ballgown - for a school project two years ago. “I believe I have the ability to predict what people will want to wear, and have always had an interest in clothing and the making of clothing,” he said. Coetzee has sponsored South Africa’s young design talent through his bursary programme for the past seven years. “They have that hunger to succeed and they consistently work to get better at what they do. The fact that they both already make dresses for people shows that they have that essential business sense, which is so important. “I’m confident that they’ll make the very most of what my bursaries can offer them to make their mark in the fashion world,” Coetzee said.