The Palace of the Lost City at Sun City, inspired by an ancient myth of an African kingdom that was lost to the jungle, has earned its reputation as a luxurious and exotic getaway just a few hours’ drive from Gauteng. With its grand architecture, world-class service and pristine pools and spas, it has been the holiday destination of choice for decades. As the North West destination turned 25 this month, a fitting way to celebrate was a reflection of the past, present and future, by burying a time capsule at The Palace. It will be opened in 25 years, when the establishment  marks its 50th birthday. The receptacle was buried on Saturday containing a variety of artefacts and documents from 1992,when the hotel opened, until this year. The capsule also contains letter from Sun International chief executive Anthony Leeming, who jotted down his thoughts on the group’s flagship resort, Sun City, and his predictions for the next 25 years. “We cannot know what the world will be like in the next two-and-a-half decades,” Leeming said. “Who would have foreseen the technological and digital changes that have occurred in our lifetime?” He said the world was already a very different place than it was in 1992 and he expected even more extensive changes when The Palace turned 50 in 2042. “Legends rely on the passing of time to grow into myth and so it has been with The Palace, a legendary destination designed by dreamers for luxury seekers. “We want to reflect the changes, in everything, in our capsule,” Leeming said. Staffers’ letters on their experiences at the the luxury five-star hotel have also been included in the time capsule. Also included were photographs of founding father Sol Kerzner and famous guests hosted by The Palace over the last 25 years, such as Elton John and the late pop king, Michael Jackson. Leeming said there were also many surprises inside which wouldn’t be revealed. “We don’t want to reveal too much about what we will put into our time capsule. Hopefully, it will be a surprise when it’s dug up” When the Lost City complex was built in 1992, it cost R830million to construct. “That was a fraction of what it would cost to build today,” said Leeming. “With our man-made jungle, world-class golf course, superb entertainment facilities, including our magnificent water park, the Valley of Waves, and gaming facilities, The Palace has been the preferred destination for discerning travellers from around the world. “We have had a very successful 25 years. We know the next 25 will be equally so, and better,” he said.