Pretoria - Taxi commuters in Tshwane have been warned to find alternative means of transportation on Wednesday as the National Taxi Alliance (NTA) protests against the government. The infamous R80 highway in Tshwane is already packed with protesting drivers involved in the massive taxi strike.  From about 5:30 taxis blocked the R80 and forced traffic to be disrupted. Commuters in Tshwane began posting updates on social media about the much-dreaded taxi strike in the early hours.Fears were that thousands of students, who are writing their National Senior Certificate (matric) exams, could fail to arrive on time.An unverified post on twitter said: "Stranded taxi commuters are now making their way home ... some are school pupils in their full school uniform #TaxiStrike ..." On Monday, the Tshwane Metro Police Department confirmed that a march to the ministry of transport and the Presidency to present a memorandum of grievances in relation to issues affecting the taxi industry would take place on Wednesday. The proposed march was suspended last month after the leadership of NTA acceded to the request from the transport ministry to give negotiations a chance following two meetings in a single week between the parties. Read: Commuters to bear brunt of Pretoria taxi strike LISTEN: Tshwane braces for huge taxi strike The grievances raised by the taxi industry include provisions of the National Land Transport Act, matters related to operations, the Integrated Public Transport Network or the BRT system, compensation for an operator surrendering an operating license, the Taxi Recapitalisation Programme, and the public transport subsidy. The marchers are expected to gather at the Old Putco Depot in Marabastad and head to the department of transport to hand over the first memorandum before proceeding to the Union Buildings where they will hand over the second memorandum.   On Monday, Tshwane Metropolitan Police Department spokesperson Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said that the marchers are expected to gather from 9 am at the Old Putco Depot in Marabastad before they head to the transport department at 11.30am at the corners Struben and Bosman Streets to hand over the first memorandum at noon. Mahamba said from the transport department they will proceed to the Union Buildings where they will hand over the second memorandum at 1 pm. He said they would turn into Struben Street from the Old Putco Depot, then proceed straight until they reach the transport department at the corners of Struben Street and Bosman Street. From Struben Street they will proceed straight then turn right into Nelson Mandela Street and then turn left into Madiba Street until they reach the Union Buildings. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "They are expected to move back to Old Putco Depot at 2.30pm using the following streets -- Madiba Street; Nelson Mandela Drive; [and] Johannes Ramokgoase Street," Mahamba said at the time. "Metro Police officers will be deployed to monitor the march and all affected streets. Motorists are advised to avoid the affected streets and use alternative routes such as Nana Sita; Francis Baard; [and] Boom Street. African News Agency and Pretoria News