On Saturday, the wet weather meant the grass was too wet for the horses to race. However, people still came out in full force, dressed for the occasion. One person who would not let the cold weather get the best of his outfit was socialite TK Goldfish. “We got the invite from Shashi Naidoo and the theme was colourful sophistication, so we thought why not call Lloyd Hot Sense - Thokozani Mbatha - the person who always dresses us, and he went crazy. COLOUR FULL: TK Goldfish and Senzo Radebe. Picture: Itumeleng English “We went to bed seeing the weather and in the morning it was a bit sunny, but we had to bring the sunshine and colour somehow. The jacket and socks were an addition to working with what we came up with.” His ensemble saw him pair checked shorts with a pink, laced detail shirt. He added a blue and green jacket and a fur sash to finish off the look. Miss Earth Irina Moutzouris also came out to show her full support. “Miss Earth is a leadership programme which aims to empower women throughout South Africa to go into communities and make a sustainable difference, but at the same time we enjoy events like this to make people aware and to make a difference where we can.” Her yellow gown brought a bit of sunshine to the event. BRIGHT BEAUTY: Miss Earth SA Irina Moutzouris. Picture: Itumeleng English Mrs South Africa 2018 Nicole Capper attended the event with her princesses and Mrs South Africa 2017 Hlengiwe Twala in tow. The beauty queens chose blush pink as their hue of choice. Another who kept up the blush pink look was the ever radiant Thembi Seete. She finished her look off with sexy pink pumps. Model Lerato Moloi also went blush pink in a form-fitting number with a fascinator to match. Isidingo actress Tema Sebopedi never disappoints at these events. Her boob tube satin gown with pink tulips added some flirty fun to her look. Naidoo was host for the event. She looked radiant in a navy blue dress adorned with flowers. Mi Casa provided the entertainment for the day and got people moving despite the cold weather. A marching band also provided some entertainment. BLACK VICTORY: Kopano Khoza's design won overall at the Sansui Summer Cup. Picture: Itumeleng English A fashion show for young designers also took place, and the winner, Kopano Khoza, received R25 000 and an internship with SIES!Isabelle. Known as The People’s Race, the Sansui Summer Cup prides itself with being one of the only horse racing events that caters for children, providing a carnival set-up with rides, face painting, buskers and other child-friendly activities. The horse races were postponed to Sunday, when the sun made an appearance.