The local radio presenter and fashionista is thrilled about her upcoming duties at the MTV Europe Music Awards (EMAs) to be held in London on Sunday. “I’m excited to see all the A-Listers, naturally,” she told The Star. “This is my first experience on an international carpet and being at the awards, so I can’t pick one artist.” The Metro FM radio host, whose real name is Luthando Shosha, added that she was also excited about the style she would be seeing on the red carpet. “London is a leader in fashion, especially with street style, so as much as I’m expecting world-class red carpet looks, I’m expecting to see some edge and fun and maybe even street style on the carpet.” It has been a successful few months for Shosha. She walked away with the Most Innovative Style award at the SA Style Awards held over the past weekend. On her win, she said she was feeling elevated and inspired. “I’m over the moon, and of course under a little pressure to always slay, but pressure makes diamonds.” She plans to continue with her stylish ways at the MTV awards, as she will be dressed by one of the country’s best designers, Rubicon, at the ceremony. The MTV EMAs, an annual musical celebration, will this year be hosted by British singer and songwriter Rita Ora. “I’m so excited to be hosting this year’s MTV EMAs in my hometown,” the Kosovo-born singer said in a media statement. “I still remember how much fun my first EMAs were in Frankfurt in 2012. I can’t wait to get back on the stage to host and perform.” Ora will also be performing on the night alongside a star-studded line-up. This includes breakout pop superstar Liam Payne, platinum-selling hip hop trailblazer and trendsetter Travis Scott and global hip hop mega star French Montana. There will also be special performances by Demi Lovato, Camila Cabello, Kesha, The Killers and Stormzy. South Africa’s own Babes Wodumo and Nasty C have been nominated for the prestigious awards in the MTV EMAs Best Africa Act category. They will compete against the likes of Nigeria’s Wizkid, Angola’s C4 Pedro and Nyanshinski from Kenya. This year’s most nominated artist is Taylor Swift, with six nominations, followed by Shawn Mendes, who has been nominated five times. Other artists who have been nominated include the likes of Rihanna, DJ Khaled, Katy Perry, The Foo Fighters and Ed Sheeran. Meanwhile, MTV is set to honour stellar rock band U2 with the Global Icon award at this year’s ceremony. The 2017 MTV EMAs will be broadcast live from London’s SSE Arena, Wembley, on Sunday at 10pm central African time on MTV (DStv channel 130) and MTV Base (DStv channel 322). @Karishma_Dipa