Tyrese Gibson has claimed he won’t appear in ‘Fast and Furious 9’ if Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson signs up to reprise his role. The 38-year-old rapper and actor - who stars as Roman Pearce in the action movie franchise - recently blamed his co-star for delaying the release of the ninth instalment until 2020 after a spin-off movie starring Dwayne and Jason Statham was announced for 2019. And now, Tyrese has claimed he will pull out of the movie altogether if bosses decide to bring back Dwayne’s character Hobbs, as the star now refuses to work with Dwayne, whom he has been feuding with since 2016 when the former wrestler slammed some unnamed 'Fast and Furious' stars on social media. Somizi blames Emtee's friends for Instagram blunder Taking to Instagram to share a snap of himself alongside Dwayne and fellow star Vin Diesel, Tyrese wrote: “Hello world.......... hello loyal fans and loved ones from OUR fast universe........ I’m sorry to announce that if Dewayne is in Fast9 there will no more Roman Peirce - You mess with family and my daughters survival I mess with yours......... close your eyes dude you’re a “Clown”...... #CandyAssB***hMade All my real one.... "Men on integrity... my real ones out here stand UP...... folks that GP to the gym and get big naturally #NoJuice#NoOJ spin off huh? Spin off these nuts selfish champ...... pause notice who’s got his arms around my shoulder and who’s standing alone - #OurChildrenMatter”.  A post shared by TYRESE (@tyrese) on Nov 1, 2017 at 9:46am PDT  In October, he wrote in a comment on one of Dwayne’s Instagram pictures: "If you move forward with that #Hobbs Movie you will have purposely ignored the heart to heart moment we had in my sprinter -- I don't wanna hear from you until you remember what we talked about -- I'm on your timeline cause you're not responding to my text messages -- #FastFamily is just that a family....... We don't fly solo.” Tyrese Furious at The Rock for movie delay Speculation of a feud between the male co-stars first surfaced last year when Dwayne slammed unnamed actors for the way they allegedly acted on set.
In his rant, the star praised his female co-stars, Charlize Theron, Jordana Brewster and Michelle Rodriguez, but admitted it was a "different story" working with the guys. He wrote: "My female co-stars are always amazing and I love 'em. My male co-stars however are a different story. "Some conduct themselves as stand up men and true professionals, while others don't. The ones that don't are too chicken s**t to do anything about it anyway. Candy asses". Bang Showbiz