Many people have already started hitting the gym and doing other forms of exercise in a bid to get their winter bodies ready for the festive season as they prepare to sport bikinis and other skimpy attire to beat the heat. Healthy food and good nutrition are among the most important ways to look your best this season. With this in mind, a Joburg café has revamped its summer menu by introducing a range of balanced meals. These include a variety of fruits, vegetables, lean carbohydrates and protein prepared and presented in a way that food lovers and health fundis can enjoy. Chefs at the Naked Kitchen and Coffee Bar in Morningside, Sandton, have ensured that the meals are not only healthy, but also delicious, so that those consuming them won’t struggle to part with their hard-earned bucks.  The restaurant’s summer menu was launched last week and The Star was invited to attend and enjoy. The evening meal was served in the company of some of the city’s best food writers and bloggers, eating together and networking. This experience of sharing was enhanced by the event organisers opting to rather serve large helpings of the entire new seasonal menu, instead of individual meals. Most of the menu consisted of a creative take on vegetables. This is ideal for vegans looking for delicious meals, which many complain are difficult to find in a city filled with  more meat and junk food options than ever before. But on The Naked Kitchen and Coffee Bar’s summer menu, there are plenty of vegetarian meals to choose from. These included pickled cauliflower “kimchi”, which is a Korean delicacy of fermented cabbage, fennel, celery, kale and roasted carrots. Despite the focus on vegetables, the chef didn’t skimp on flavour as several spices and herbs were added to enhance the taste. Turmeric, watercress, wild rocket, garlic, lemon, coconut, almonds, pomegranate and Parmesan were among them and were all paired with individual dishes. While there wasn’t an extensive selection for meat lovers, the Naked Kitchen and Coffee Bar’s new summer menu didn’t cut it out completely. Lime chicken skewers and coconut-poached free range chicken were examples of this, as well as garlic and mustard beef rump for those who enjoy their red meat. But what seems to set the restaurant apart from its competitors is that all meals are prioritised with health and nutritional value in mind. This was evident in the carbohydrates which were served, as an increasing number of people are now choosing to avoid them completely. The kitchen staff were insistent on a balanced meal, but opted for healthier options such as mashed sweet potato and basmati and brown rice. The menu even includes meat alternatives such as a peanut noodle salad with fried tofu and golden beets and soy with Szechuan chilli marinated beans. While health was the focus on the menu, those who enjoy an alcoholic beverage are also catered for as red and white wines as well as gin were also on the menu. But what the restaurant is famous for is the coffees - especially the hazelnut latte which looks almost too delicious to drink. While the menu received rave reviews, the atmosphere is great: the Naked Kitchen and Coffee Bar in Morningside is very relaxed and intimate, despite being located in a busy shopping centre.  Some of their unique elements include an emerald green wall with the word “NAKED” printed in bold gold. The words “You’re My Favourite Addiction,” hang on another wall at the opposite side of the restaurant. Ultimately, The Naked Kitchen and Coffee Bar is an ideal place to find solace in a busy city, while enjoying delicious and healthy cuisine with your loved ones.