She couldn't hide her excitement after she won the coveted prize. STUNNED: The Miss Soweto announcement had Busisiwe Mmotla filled with joy. Picture: Matthews Baloyi  “Third time a charm. I am extremely happy and words cannot explain how I am feeling right now,” said Mmotla, speaking to The Star at the Soweto Theatre, where the pageant was held on Saturday. Winning the title has given Mmotla the confidence and energy to do what she has always wanted to, which is to inspire young people from her community in Emdeni, Soweto, she said. “What's next for me is to inspire the young people in my community to create opportunities for themselves by going out there and doing it. Because you can.” An answer that catapulted Mmotla to success was when she spoke about her plans to promote the White Star Super Maize Meal brand, sponsors of the event. Mmotla said that she would research more about what the task of being a White Star Ambassador meant and, with that information, she would educate the community about the local maize meal brand.  Mmotla was among the top 20 contestants who dazzled the hundreds in the audience. Contestants wore both swimsuits and formal gowns. The contestants also took part in all the pre-events, workshops and mentorship programmes that form part of the pageant’s build-up. The all-female judging panel consisted  of chef Lucia Mthiyane, actress Mapaseka Koetle-Nyokong and Grace Mantjiu. Mmotla came out tops with her Soweto personality, struts and poses, according to the judging panel. Nthabiseng Kgasi, Miss Soweto 2016, said that as someone who was handing over her crown, she was very happy to hear that Mmotla had won Miss Soweto 2017. “I've known Busi since 2016, when I won the title. I was in the competition with her. So this is her third time entering Miss Soweto. “From the person that I’ve known, I know for sure that the crown is in good hands. She has wanted this title for so long,” said Kgasi. BELLES OF THE BALL: Pumzile Nyembe and Musawenkosi Gumede were second princess and first princess respectively. Picture: Matthews Baloyi “She already had a plan of action for what she is going to do with the crown,” she said. Speaking of her experience as Miss Soweto, Kgasi said she was glad to  have had a positive impact on other people’s lives, especially the children. “I’ve learnt and grown but, most importantly, I’ve enjoyed every second of my reign,” said Kgasi. The Miss Soweto pageant was established in 1979 and was created to bring awareness to the women of Soweto. Celebrities who have reigned as Miss Soweto in previous years include businesswoman Basetsana Makgalemele-Kumalo  and Augustine Masilela-Chuene. @Zwane_2li2ls