Nicole Capper shone brighter than the rest as she beat 21 other women to take home the title of Mrs South Africa. The 32-year-old mother of two was crowned at the weekend at Emperor’s Palace. The pageant has grown to attract a large following and for the first time since inception was televised. Capper said she was overwhelmed by the whole experience. “This time last year I was here, I was a fan. I had a gold-sequinned dress I borrowed from a friend, I came with hubby, bought tickets and sat in the audience and watched as Hlengiwe (Twala) was crowned. I had goosebumps. It was inspiring and I knew what I wanted to do.” She said from then on she worked towards making that vision a reality. At a breakfast in honour of her and the other finalists, Capper said she was still taking time to process the life-changing moment. “The overwhelming emotion is gratitude. I will endeavour to fulfil the potential the judges saw in me. I entered this movement to become the best version of myself, and I will do my best to continue the legacy left to me.” Capper was emotional as she thanked everyone who had been there for her since her journey to the title began. She thanked the other finalists for the sisterhood they had formed. “It’s not a beauty pageant, it’s a women empowerment programme. It’s a platform that unites women like nothing I have ever seen before. You are remarkable women who are going to change the world. Thank you for being my team and my tribe.” The finalists also raised over R1 million for Cansa. First princess was Gela le Roux and Mankoana Nhlebela earned the second princess sash. The main event was hosted by Jo-Ann Strauss and Loyiso Bala. Highlights from the event were the Vuyani Dance Group and the “Re-engineered Denim Project” opening scene from the Lisof School of Fashion. All 22 finalists wore their recycled denims, that were redesigned and upcycled into fashion-forward ball gowns on the night. Capper also thanked previous title-holder Twala for being a role model. “Thank you for the lessons, the ones you didn’t know you were giving us. It’s not what you say, it’s how you live. I have massive shoes to fill.” Capper will represent the country at the Mrs World pageant which will be hosted in South Africa. @mane_mpi