Chatunga Bellarmine Mugabe took to Facebook and posted about bringing top Nigerian musician and songwriter Augustine Miles Kelechi, aka Tekno, to perform at the Harem nightclub in Rosebank on Saturday night. Tekno was meant to start his tour in Zimbabwe on Friday at the Alexandra Sports Club in Harare but the show was cancelled, according to the 21-year-old’s Facebook post. “Tekno Zim Show Cancelled! It is with regret and sadness that Triplife Entertainment announces the cancellation of its high-profile gig featuring Nigerian Star, Tekno. Read: Mugabe sons' excesses the final straw “After doing everything in our power to ensure that all was set for the artist’s debut performance in Harare on November 24, unforeseen circumstances beyond our control interfered and jeopardised the event." Independent Media spent much of the week outside the homes of Robert junior, 25, and Chatunga Bellarmine, 21, in Sandhurst trying to ascertain if they are still in South Africa. Read more: Mugabe sons are victims of their upbringing This followed a week where their parents - President Robert Mugabe and his wife Grace - were holed up in their home in Harare while their countrymen took to the streets calling for their nonagenarian leader to step down after 37 years in power. Also read: Mugabe kids won't be washing their watches with Champagne anymore In Sandhurst, Sandton, the couple's two sons were ensconced in the comfort of their brother Russell Goreraza's house behind high walls under tight security, seemingly oblivious to the drama around their parents. There was deathly silence outside the house, and its high walls made it difficult to see who was inside the yard. No cars arrived or left the premises. Instead the news team was tailed by a car that was parked on the pavement next to the house. A minder/bodyguard denied having seen or spoken to the boys who are famous for partying up a storm. They were recently recorded jumping and somersaulting on top of parked cars outside the Cubana Club in Fourways. The Sunday Independent