They continue to fight this, living in horrendous, unhygienic conditions. There are many told, and untold stories, as far as adequate sanitation is concerned. Michael Komape, who was in Grade 1, is a sad case study for this ongoing problem. In January 2014, the little boy left his Limpopo classroom at Mahlodumela Lower Primary School to use the dilapidated pit toilet. He fell inside, and drowned. The school instructed learners at the school not to tell anyone about what had happened to Michael. Pupils were told that according to Section27, a public-interest law centre that seeks to achieve equality and social justice in South Africa, no one should speak about the circumstances surrounding Michael’s death. Michael’s family is seeking more than R3 million in damages as, they say, the child’s death was a result of “wrongful, unlawful and negligent conduct” as well as unconstitutional conduct. The family is still waiting for an apology from the government. Nomatter Ndebele of Section27 said the matter was still being handled in court and it was a pity that the family had been holding onto the hurt and pain for four years now and that the justice system was treating them as criminals. “The state’s advocate is being very difficult and has accused the family of wanting to cash in on Michael’s death. They also said the family’s testimonies were orchestrated. It is a pity that they are being treated as criminals when they, in actual fact, are the victims. Yes, they are poor, but they are not looting the state. It is all about justice,” she said. Ndebele said Michael’s mother even went on to say: “If I could choose between the money and Michael, I would choose Michael.” According to Ndebele, there are still 1.7 million pit toilets in Limpopo. This is not the only province that suffers this predicament and it is not only those who live in rural provinces who are subjected to using pit toilets. Although described as the City of Gold, some parts of Joburg still have pit toilets. At an informal settlement in Waterworks, south of Joburg with a population of hundreds of people, residents are sick and tired of the disgusting living conditions they are subjected to. Argen Theko is one of the residents who lives without a toilet or an adequate water system. He has been staying at the settlement for eight months now. He said he desperately needed the government, or officials, to at least visit the area and to see “the horrendous” living conditions of the people, and then perhaps they would take action. “I am from Bushbuckridge originally and I came to Joburg in the hope of building a better life and make money. I am unemployed and I just take it day by day. “As you can see, there are no toilets in our area, so I’ve been building my own toilet for the past month,” he said, pointing to a hole he dug in his yard, which he uses to relieve himself. Another resident of the area, Maletsatsi Magoro, a mother-of-three, said she was originally from Mapetla, Soweto, and had also been staying at the settlement for eight months. She said she was accustomed to a life of poverty and it was just “how they lived”. She too was planning to dig her own pit latrine. “Here, you have to create your own toilet system, suffer or use the public toilets on the other end of all the shacks, which often get crowded. We will see later, but as long as I have a roof over my head, I am satisfied,” Magoro said. A disabled 50-year-old man, Stephen Muthelo, said he had nothing and was tired of being poor. “I am currently in this wheelchair. It is broken and old and I literally cannot do anything. “My leg was amputated 11 years ago and I don’t even know what is wrong with me because I have no money to go to the doctor. “My other leg is currently rotting away and the only thing I can do is wash or clean it with salt and water. I can’t live like this anymore,” he said. According to Department of Water and Sanitation spokesperson Sputnik Ratau, people needed to bear in mind that South Africa was still a developing country, adding that perceiving the country as advanced placed it at a higher level than what reality dictated.