Durban - Vandals have ripped apart and taken several brass plates from the Durban City Cenotaph war memorial near the Durban city hall. It is not known whether the incident happened last night or over a period of time, but it is believed that the plates, part of the city’s history, were stolen to be sold as scrap metal. The main feature, the Cenotaph, stands 11 metres high and was opened in 1926. As with other cenotaphs from around the British Commonwealth, it includes a metal statue of a fallen soldier stretched out on a plinth. Nine of the plates that were stolen were erected on walls that surround the Durban City Cenotaph, which is situated on the western side of the city hall. A tenth plate was removed from the front of the plinth. The plates are inscribed with the names of Durban citizens who fell in all wars. Four brass cappings from a dome were taken and several other plates were damaged during attempts to remove them with a crowbar. Colonel Pat Acutt, senior staff officer at the Defence Reserves, said he was devastated by the vandalism. “This is treason. It’s utterly disgraceful and a national calamity. Where’s the pride of the city? The death of Durban soldiers in all wars are remembered here.” Lt-Col Chris Craig-Mackie, also of the Defence Reserves, said: “We’ve been asking the city for a long time to improve security of the Cenotaph environment, but it has not happened. It is unfortunate that a tourist destination has been so neglected.” The area is used by vagrants during most of the year, but is spruced up twice a year. The first is ahead of Armistice Day (November 11) to commemorate the end of World War 1, and the second is in July to commemorate the Battle of Delville Wood, which was fought in France during that war by, among others, South African soldiers. The service this year was due to take place on November 12 and was being organised by the SA Legion. Johann Kruger, the secretary of the Durban branch of the legion, said he was on his way to lay a charge with the police. “It is a very sad day for Durban. It’s our responsibility to keep alive the memory of those who paid the ultimate sacrifice for the freedom we enjoy today, and I feel as though we have failed them.” Kruger said there would be a service on November 12, but a decision had yet to be taken about where it would be held. City manager Sipho Nzuza, who was in Japan, said he would look into the matter on his return. “The vandalism of historical monuments is unacceptable. We have to preserve history for the benefit of our children. They have to know where we are coming from and what we went through to be where we are. The fact that people from abroad gather around this monument and take photos says a lot about tourism. 
“Here in Japan, history and culture are preserved,” Nzuza said. Daily News