The group of eight of arguably the world’s most talented illusionists will visit the country early next year. This could be a perfect date for Valentine’s Day, as the first show is set to kick off in Joburg on February 14. This is the first time the box office-shattering group will be performing in South Africa and they promise to deliver a show that has never been seen before. This follows record-breaking runs in New York, London and various cities in Asia. According to the event organisers, audiences can expect a “nonstop show packed with thrilling and sophisticated magic of unprecedented proportions”. “Audiences will witness stunning acts of grand illusion, levitation, mind reading and disappearance.” The touring magic production takes its cue from the showmanship of the great illusionists of the past, such as Harry Houdini. For a modern twist, they pair it with a new and updated contemporary aesthetic, whose set and costume design lend the genre theatricality and artistry rarely seen before. One of them, grand illusionist Darcy Oake, appeared before 200million viewers on ITV’s Britain’s Got Talent in 2014. The reality talent search show catapulted the Canadian’s career as his magic tricks impressed and thrilled the judges as well as the audience. Oake, who is also an author and a television personality, later made a guest appearance on America’s Got Talent. Others from the group include award-winning New York comedian Harrison Greenbaum, fondly known as “The Trickster”. He co-hosted and performed at the official Times Square New Year’s Eve worldwide webcast in 2010 and 2011, broadcast live to over 250million viewers around the globe. Fellow group member Paul Krendl, “The Escapist”, is acclaimed for his infusion of the old and new world of performance theatre in his magical illusion act. He has performed more than 1200 shows in 12 years and was voted “best in show” for the past three years at the international Magic Theater. Ben Blaque, “The Weapon Master”, established himself as America’s foremost master of the crossbow after appearing four times on America’s Got Talent. Blaque performs incredibly dangerous acts using highly powerful crossbows to shoot various objects. Combining a truly entrancing, poetic approach to card trickery with brilliant dexterity, South Korean-born Den Den’s “now you see it, now you don’t” trickery keeps audiences engrossed as he mixes a visually beautiful performance with mind-bending magic. The talents of Den Den, known as “The Manipulator”, saw him being named Magician of the Year in 2014 by the Academy of Magical Arts, and he also received the highest accolade from the Society of American Magicians. Chris Cox is “The Mentalist”, a self-proclaimed “mind reader who can’t read minds”. Mark Kalin and Jinger Leigh, whose stage names are Kalin & Jinger, have taken to the stage at Sun City before. The Illusionists Direct from Broadway will be in Cape Town at GrandWest from February 7 to February 11. They will then move to Montecasino in Fourways, where they will perform from February 14 to March 11.  For more information, visit www.computicket.com 