This is as the Is’thunzi star, who has been nominated in the Best Performance by an Actress category, will be rocking a striking gown designed by the legendary Gert Johan Coetzee for the event. Although images of the dress will not to be released until the prestigious awards are held in the US on Monday, The Star got a sneak preview yesterday. The sea moss-blue show-stopper is a boob tube gown with extensive ruffle designs on the skirt and a jewelled waist belt to accentuate Mbedu’s small waist. Coetzee told The Star that they worked closely on the design in a bid for the actress to put her most stylish foot forward at the awards in Los Angeles. “She wanted volume, I wanted colour and I think this is the perfect combination for a red carpet look.” He explained that he was going for an over-the-top look when he was designing the dress. “Whenever South Africans do international events, we need them to show what we’re made off, we need to shut things down completely. “I want her to go there and close down that red carpet and really stand out like no South African has stood out before.” The designer said the gown took two months to design. But all the work was worth it as Mbedu’s success is one that South Africans from all walks of life can enjoy. “This is such a big deal for her career and South Africa, and Africa as a whole,” Coetzee said. “Every time someone does so well internationally, it’s 
a little inspiration for all of 
us.” Coetzee added that he opted to make the dress in such a dramatic colour, because it commands attention and also complemented the actress’s skin tone perfectly. “The colour is unusual and bright and will be a breath of fresh air at the awards, because it is currently winter in the US.” The designer’s excitement was echoed by Mbedu when she put it on. “I absolutely love the dress, it makes me feel beautiful and I didn’t think I was beautiful for a long time in my life, but it shows that we are all worthy of all these beautiful things.” To match the spectacular and bright gown, Mbedu chose a pair of earrings from Jenna Clifford designs in Sandton, where she also did the last fitting of the dress before jetting off to America tonight.  After browsing through the variety of designs, she eventually decided on a pair of pink sapphire earrings with a diamond square design. She admitted that she pierced her ears only a few days ago so that she could wear some of the jewellery designer’s exquisite pieces. Mbedu, who is the only African nominee at the Emmys this year, said although she was thrilled with her look, she was hoping to bring home the award. @Karishma_Dipa