The 22-year-old man, who asked not to be named, is accused of going crazy and stabbing his neighbour in the head over the weekend. His victim, Noel Dada, says the young man ran up to him “looking possessed” and shouted his name and stabbed him with a long knife on Friday. Dada was taken to Somerset Hospital where he received stitches. His attacker, however, has no memory of stabbing his neighbour and believes his drink was spiked by gangsters. He says on Friday, he and his friends bought beers at a shebeen. Read: Stabbed man says he is the victim of a flakka attack “There were two guys from Belhar that I don’t know and they are part of the Sexy Boys. They were going on and swearing and we told them, ‘ouens (guys), this is not your place, have some respect’. When the beers were up we went to buy more and a bottle of Red Heart [rum],” he explains. The man says the two gangsters seemed upset with him, but he ignored them. “I went to the toilet and when I came back, one of the Sexy Boys was pouring. I got a glass and 40 minutes later I told them, ‘ouens (guys), I am not feeling right’. “When I stood up, everything was blank; almost like my hands and arms and my brain were doing everything by themselves. I don’t remember anything, but I woke up at another friend’s house.” The man says when neighbours told him he had stabbed Dada, he was shocked and says he has no memory of the incident. He says he woke up with several bruises and open wounds. Neighbours told him he had thrown himself against walls and hurt himself. His friends told him the gangters put flakka in his drink. “I think they did it as a joke because they were upset because I told them not to go on. I can’t believe this happened and my body still doesn’t feel right. I don’t drink with those friends anymore and I did apologise to him [Dada].” Dada confirms he spoke to his attacker, but says he is still proceeding with criminal charges. Flakka is a hallucinogenic drug that causes panic and hysteria in users. Meanwhile, Ward Councillor Angus McKenzie says a meeting with Bishop Lavis police, Metro Police and Law Enforcement is being held this week to discuss the distribution of flakka in Bonteheuwel. He says a resident has reported that merchants are handing out the drug for free. “The merchant showed him a tablet and said this is the new drug flakka, ‘take it and if you like it you know where to find me’. The person didn’t take it and called me,” says McKenzie. “We are calling on people who have information or have been offered the drug to come forward so we can get to the bottom of this.” Daily News