Earlier in the year, Clegg announced a final set of concerts in South Africa and overseas to thank his fans for their support over his 40-year-long career. Clegg will be joined by local acts including Prime Circle, DJ Kent and The Parlotones. The musician said he was delighted to be joined on stage by the local talent. “It is the perfect ending to my tour and the final opportunity to thank audiences for their incredible support.” The Soweto Gospel Choir will add to the mix of performers who will be on stage with Clegg. “It has been a great journey, and as the Soweto Gospel Choir, we are grateful and honoured to have been part of his vision. Our first performance with him was in 2006, and that was the beginning of our journey with him,” said the choir’s alto singer and dancer Gugu Mbongwa. She added that the choir had always been inspired by Clegg and performed his music at various concerts. “From day one, we’ve been performing Asimbonanga, a song that played a big role in the choir and the nation. It gives honour to our past and our heroes, and we always perform it.” Mbongwa said fans could expect to see Clegg come out of his old man persona backstage and become a young man as soon as he hits the stage. “When he’s on stage, it’s like he is a young man stuck in an old man’s body. It becomes just him and the people. There is this thing about the respect he has for his work. He is never late for anything and he brings a positive attitude on stage, and in turn we get that as well. So the audience will have fun. They will dance, they will cry and they will laugh.” Mbongwa said all the previous performances were packed. In Durban, the venue should’ve been Moses Mabhida Stadium instead of the ICC, she added. “The line-up is a mix of music genres and one could ask how can such different artists come together. It’s because of one man. He is able to bring us together. He should have been the president,” Mbongwa added. She said she loved the way Clegg gathered a vibrant audience. “He is all about the music with his amazing band. Being able to celebrate his last days on stage with him has made us feel like we’re part of his family. “We respect and appreciate him for having faith and believing in us, knowing we are going to do what is expected of us and match the quality of his performances.” After his epic Final Journey World Tour, Clegg hopes to finish his autobiography and spend time with his family. The once-off performance takes place at the Ticketpro Dome on November 11. Tickets can be obtained via Computicket at R250-R775.