Gqom Wave is a 24-minute documentary featuring some of the masterminds behind it, including DJ Tira, Destruction Boyz, DJ Vumar and the man who is flying the South African flag high internationally, DJ Maphorisa. The multi-award-winning producer, whose real name is Themba Sekowe, partnered his Blaqboy Music label with Sony Music Africa in a joint venture for the documentary and the album compilation by the same name, which are both being released today on Trace TV globally. “It’s the first project that we have got into with Maphorisa. It’s a compilation of the hottest Gqom titles for the summer and features some of South Africa’s most exciting artists. He has curated one of the finest projects to come out of Gqom,” said Refiloe Ramogase, general manager of Sound African Recordings. Ramogase said the documentary had already gained global support. Sony Music A&R director Spiro Damaskinos said it was a pleasure working with the DJ in such a short space of time. “It positions Maphorisa as one of the leading lights going out internationally. For me it’s undoubtedly the best compilation we have. There’s quite a big awareness and movement internationally, a big buzz on the sound. The documentary and the compilation will feature together and over above that he will be doing a mix on Beats 1, also going live (today).” Maphorisa’s debut album is due next year. He said it was his passion to unearth new talent. He recently teamed up with co-producers Rude Boyz and Destruction Boyz on his Sony debut single Midnight Starring featuring DJ Tira, Busiswa and Moonchild Sanelly. The song has been picked up by Ultra Music in the US and it will be launched on December 1. On Wednesday, an exclusive screening of the documentary was shown to the media and DJ Mapho-
risa’s family were also there to celebrate his birthday. In the documentary, the discussion of where Gqom started, what it is and why it’s so popular is discussed. It’s a fun, light-hearted and informative story on the celebrated genre that has seen the likes of Babes Wodumo take it to brand new heights and people. The compilation album features a line-up that includes Sho Madjozi, Stilo Magolide, Busiswa, DJ Tira, Bucie and Mbali from the social media sensation Tholukuthi Hey, among many others. It is also available on Apple Music.