Afro-pop sensation Vusi Nova has been gatecrashing weddings the past few weekends to share in the joy of love and to perform his hit single Ndimfumene. “It’s a wedding song, and when I wrote the song I was in love. I thought after recording it, why not gatecrash weddings and make people’s day extra special? And do it for free.” Vusi Nova made a social media call to all his fans and supporters, and asked them to let him know if anyone was in Joburg and attending a wedding on the weekend of November 10-12. “I went on Twitter and asked them to let me know and told them I may just come through to the wedding. I did four or five that weekend. I decided not to stop there. “If I'm in the Eastern Cape, I will do the same thing and come through. So I’ll be doing that through December and surprising people.” Vusi Nova, whose real name is Vusi Nongxo, said people were still contacting him and asking him to come to Durban and Polokwane. “We are shooting and taking footage of everything as we go along. So they may just make cameos in the official video.” Ndimfumene is one of the songs off the hit album Naninina. The version he is singing at weddings is the remix which features Mozambican star Mr Bow. “We were thinking of going to Mozambique and shooting over there as well. The single has been out for the last two weeks and people are loving it,” he said.  Mr Bow, real name Salvador Maiaze, is known for his use of modern and traditional music and hits like My Number One and Nitafa Wena. “It’s always very important for me to sing songs with different artists. It’s very important collaborating with another country’s artists; this collaboration keeps us united as Africans and shows that we are fighting for uniting countries and cultures,” he said. He said he wanted Vusi Nova to also come to Mozambique to promote the song. “People must see and know who he is. I’m looking to do more things with other artists as well. I want to exchange experiences with many more. This project is my introduction to the South African market,” he added. Vusi Nova is working on new music, and also features on the single Ubuhle by new boy band 047. “The people are loving it and it has gone viral. I'm helping them with their album, which comes out in February, and working on mine, which will come out later next year.” This December will see him performing at several events, including the Buyel’-
Ekhaya festival in his home province, the Eastern Cape. Mr Bow also has a jam-packed festive season ahead and will perform in Polokwane next month. “I am working on my summer song, which comes out in two weeks, and will be doing a lot of bookings in Mozambique and other countries.” If you happen to be at a wedding over the next few weeks, don’t forget to be camera-ready, just in case the artists rock up at the one you're attending. @mane_mpi