The multi-award-winning Amanda Black is one of the artists who will be giving those who attend a day to remember. Her rise in the music industry has pushed the 24-year-old to want to give her best performance every time. “I’ve always believed I was meant to be where I am today and I worked very hard to get here. I didn’t expect it (the rise) to be this quick after Idols, but I remember when I left the competition I said it wasn’t going to be the end for me,” said Black. The Amazulu singer said she had always known she was destined to be in music, and dreamt about it all the time. “I planned and practised and have been preparing for this time, and then God made it happen.” For her Jazz in July performance, which will be held at the Juventus Field at the Durban Botanic Gardens, Black is sure it will be a great show. “I’m so excited. I love performing and engaging with the audience, and it’s so cool when they know the songs. They can look forward to a great show with me singing all the songs they love.” SINGALONG: Amanda Black says she will be singing her fans' favourite songs from the Amazulu album at the Jazz in July. Picture: Supplied.  Her new single Kahle off the Amazulu album is now out and the official video is on YouTube. In August, she will be recording a live DVD for Amazulu. “It’s going to be a different vibe. It’s always great to hear your favourite songs sung differently. The live feel will be really different from the studio, so the audience must expect an electrifying show. I want to break the rules for live recordings. I definitely have a few surprises up my sleeve. It’s the first show where it’s just me, so I am excited.” Jazz in July takes place this Sunday and will see Black perform alongside Swaziland-based muso Sands, whose song Tigi has gone viral across the country. Local Durban 14-year-old singer Lasandra is also in the line-up. “One of the main aims of Jazz in July is to unearth and nurture new talent in the province,” said organiser Wanita Ngcobo. She said the event was much more than just a concert or festival, as it helped the community’s development. The performances will be a mix of young and old with acts like the energetic Ringo Madlingozi and Ray Phiri, Feelings hitmaker Zonke, old school with Joe Nina, Thandiswa Mazwai, Robbie Malinga, Naima Kay and Zandie Khumalo. The UKZN Jazz Ensemble, Scelo Gowane, Mondli Ngcobo and DJ Kotin round off the performance line-up for the day. Black said she would be focusing a lot on pushing the Amazulu album as it was still a gem. “More videos and more performances; some songs I don’t perform so we are looking at new ways to reinvent it to make it a long-lasting album. As the year progresses, and into 2018,
I will be looking into collaborations. That’s one of the best parts of being a musician.” Tickets to Jazz in July range from R290 to R850 from Computicket. @mane_mpi