FANS OF TV presenter, radio host and musician Zola will get their chance to see him perform live at the annual Basha Uhuru Freedom Fest. Thandiswa Mazwai, who has had a busy month with the Igoda music circuit festivals will also be performing at the festival. The five-day event aims to commemorate the spirit of the students of 1976. It will feature a packed programme filled with art exhibitions (Expressions of Freedom- June 22), creative talks (Conversations of Freedom- June 21), film screenings (Visions of Freedom- June 23), a concert (Sounds of Freedom- June 24), cycling tours (Rides of Freedom- June 24) and a picnic and comedy session (June 25). A media launch for the festival was held at Constitution Hill on Wednesday evening to officially open the festivities. DJ Zero kept the attendees entertained with his mix of R&B and Neo-Soul while Urban Village brought their creative beats to the stage. Cape Town hip hop artist Dope Saint Jude got the audience moving with her slick word play. ON THE DECKS: DJ Zero kept the audience warm with his beats at the media launch of Basha Uhuru Freedom Fest at Constitution Hill. Picture: Matthews Baloyi  Now in it’s fifth year the main attraction of the festival will be the Sounds of Freedom music concert featuring a diverse line-up that will see the likes of Sjava, Gigi Lamayne, Johnny Cradle, Urban Village, Dope Saint Jude, Twins on Decks, Ms Cosmo and more at the event. The line up is filled with artists both already successful and those who ares still making a name for themselves. The festival is known to be ‘a celebration and expression of artistic wealth among the youth of the country” and this year’s aim is to commemorate not only the 41st anniversary of June 16 uprising but also the 21st anniversary of the signing the constitution. The music concert will take place at the museum precinct at Constitution Hill. Some of the other artists that will be involved are Mpho Sebina, Stogie T, dj Kenzhero, Rosie Parade and DJ Speedsta. Two stages are set to light up the day. The Expressions of Freedom art exhibition will feature Nompumelelo Tshabalala, Zanele Mashinini, Bambo Sibiya, Victor Dlamini, Leeroy Jason and Anthea Moys. LIVELY: Dope Saint Jude was a hit with the audience at the launch of the Basha Uhuru Freedom Fest at Constitution Hill. Picture Matthews Baloyi  The Visions of Freedom film screenings will showcase Kalushi, The Hangman and Uprize at the Women’s Gaol while the heritage cycling tour will move from the Hector Pietersen Museum to Constitution Hill. For the last day of events comedians Mashabela and Mpho Popps will keep fans laughing while artists Nonku Phiri, Rhythm Sessions and Just Themba keep those in attendance entertained. Constitution Hill will also be celebrating youth month by providing complimentary tours to the youth between 18 and 35. The five-day Basha Uhuru Festival is a free concert but attendees must get their complimentary tickets at webtickets in order to get access to the events.