Then you could be one of a few who might be chosen to remix veteran musician Mark Stent’s new album. Together with local record label David Gresham Records, the South African DJ and producer is inviting up-and-coming musicians to be a part of the musical offering. Stent, who has been setting dance floors alight for nearly two decades, told The Star that the rationale for including hopefuls in his album was to give them exposure as well as to spice up his own music offering. “This is an opportunity to empower the youth and, through a huge record label, give their music a platform because there is so much talent out there,” he said. “I also want to get fresh ears and give my own music an original sound.” Stent explained that the call for submissions is to remix the 12 tracks on his album Solid, which was released a few months ago. The updated version of the album will then be titled Solid 2.0 and will feature the musician’s original tracks, of all genres, with a twist as it will have the input of the successful applicants who were chosen to remix songs. Stent said that from the scores of hopefuls who enter, 24 would ultimately be chosen to remix his album. He insists that Solid was one of the highlights of his career due to the variety of music, with five of the tracks topping the charts. He expects even more success for Solid 2.0. “I am excited about putting out even better music with the new album.” In order to be one of the select few, aspiring producers are urged to email one of their own original productions to carla@gresham.co.za They should then share their original production on Facebook and label it #SOLIDsearch while listing three of the songs on the album they would like to remix. Stent said hopefuls should also supply a short video clip to motivate why they should be apart of the Solid 2.0 album. He added it was important to incorporate elements of social media into the submission process as it would give entrants even more exposure, as this was where an entire new audience could have access to the content. “It is also important to include the public in this, and social media is such a great way to do so,” he said. Entries will close on July
10, and between then and July 14, officials from David Gresham Records as well as Stent himself will choose the 24 finalists. The shortlist of candidates will be announced on July 17. “When we announce the finalists, we will send them the separates of the songs we have chosen them to produce,” said Stent. The “battle period” will take place on July 28, when the producers will load a two-minute clip of the mix to SoundCloud, and the songs that have been listened to the most will be the winners. “The producers will be encouraged to promote their version on social media,” Stent pointed out. The ultimate winner will be announced on August 11 and Solid 2.0 is expected to be available three days later for pre-order on iTunes, while the album is expected to be released on September 1. Stent notes that although everyone is encouraged to make submissions, only the best producers and highest quality of music will be selected.