The event, which took place at Steyn City - a multibillion-rand lifestyle resort north of Joburg - promised patrons a VIP experience at the equestrian centre, filled with food, drinks and value-packed  performances. The Le Kap Lifestyle Fair is a benchmark for those who embrace the finer things in life; however, several guests in attendance believed that the fair could do better. Hellen Phaleng-Podile, one of the invited guests,  told The Star that her short experience left a lot to be desired. According to Phaleng-Podile, the catering was lacking and the space was rather cramped. “Considering the amount of money we paid, they can do better,” said Phaleng-Podile. Another guest of the VIP Lux lounge, Olwethu Libala, said: “The only thing I am not too happy about is the fact this is supposed to be VIP but, in terms of drinks, you still need to buy your own. I don't think it's very VIP.” The experience might not have measured up to the expectations of some, but other enthusiastic guests found the fair to be one-of-a-kind and just needed some momentum to grow. “I think the fair was really nice. It’s very refreshing that there is something like this in Joburg. Obviously we have the same things happening all the time, and the fair is something new. In an opulent place, it brings a spotlight on something fresh in Joburg,” said Muvhango actress Buhle Samuels. “Being a Joburg girl, I think it is really cool. As the years go by, the fair will grow from strength to strength and gain momentum, which I am looking forward to seeing.” The fair had much-anticipated highlights as it made its debut in Joburg after being hosted successfully in Cape Town for the past three years. Bonang Matheba at the Le Kap Lifestyle Fair event held at the weekend.   Picture: Matthews Baloyi  The event offered a "best-in-class" experience with a rich tapestry of fashion, fine wines, artisanal cocktail bars, delicious dining, live music, VIP lounges, a luxury vehicle display, dressage and show-
jumping. Among those who attended the glamorous event were  Bonang Matheba, who was flown to the equestrian centre; Pearl Thusi and Robert Marawa; and the flamboyant TouchHD founder Tbo Touch (real name Thabo Molefe). Besides the few glitches that were experienced, guests enjoyed such things as exclusive chef performances hosted by MasterChef SA judge Benny Masekwameng. There was also a lavish fashion show with top designers, such as Quiteria & George, Gert-Johan Coetzee and Jacques LaGrange, showcasing their summer collections. @Zwane_2li2ls