 The embattled Gupta family’s lawyer believes that a judicial commission of inquiry should look into allegations of state capture between his clients and government instead of relying on a ‘trial by media.’ This comes after thousands of emails, showing improper dealings with the wealthy family and top government officials including President Jacob Zuma, have been leaked and consequently publicised. Speaking on Jacaranda FM this morning, the Gupta family  lawyer Gert van der Merwe said although he doesn't confirm nor deny that the contents of the communication could be true, he believes that proper procedures needs to be followed to verify the authenticity of the emails. “I must be immediately straightforward with you, I've never said this was made up in any way whatsoever,” he said. “What I've always said was like any proper judicial inquiry, there will be preparation, people will have an opportunity to read through everything, prepare, get witnesses and gather evidence and eventually (there will) not be a trial by media but a trial by a judge, a retired judge, whoever is appointed, I think that is the way to deal with it really.” “That's the way the law works.” He added that a ‘trial by media’ will not be able to get the relevant answers. “The point is that a trial by media will eventually result in an opinion and will bring us nowhere.” Van der Merwe said that while working with the Gupta family over the past few years, he has seen a different side to them, which is in contrast to the way they are painted in the media. “‘I can tell you that my experience with them is vastly different from what you read in the newspapers everyday,” he said. “They are people comfortable to work with, what I advise them they do.” He also said that during his work as their lawyer, he has never been exposed to corruption. “I can tell you that as a fact, I've never been asked to do anything wrong.” He also insisted that he has never met Zuma or any ministers but admitted that he met the president's son Duduzane as he was his client. The #GuptaEmails, have over the past few weeks, implicated the Gupta family as having an extensive influence in government and state owned enterprises.