Johannesburg - The Witwatersrand Taxi Association (Wata) has confirmed that one of its taxi drivers has died after two drivers were stabbed in Soweto on Tuesday, following two days of taxi violence. "The second driver remains in critical condition in ICU," said Wata spokesperson Georg Maphalala. He said that the stabbing happened on Tuesday afternoon at about 4pm in Dube. "Our drivers know who stabbed them and it is connected to the recent violence. "We have suspended all services until the situation can be resolved – it's too dangerous for us to operate at this time," he said. Asked about a way forward, he said that government were trying to intervene and get a hold of the Nanduwe leaders so that a meeting can be held to resolve the current situation. "At the moment they're struggling to get a hold of them but once they do, we will meet and hopefully find a way forward," he said. Meanwhile the ongoing violence have left commuters stranded in Soweto forcing some to find alternative means of transport to get to work. On Tuesday several taxis were damaged while packed with passengers as route wars between Wata and the Nancefield Dube West Taxi Association (Nanduwe) reached breaking point. Three people were arrested on Tuesday in connection with the ongoing violence.  The MEC for Transport, Ismail Vadi has threatened to shut down several taxi ranks if the violence does not stop. He condemned the recent violence and pleaded with the two taxi associations to stop. “The dispute (over routes) was formally heard by the Provincial Regulatory Entity (PRE) in terms of Section 79 of the National Land Transport Act. “The ruling by PRE infers that Wata has irregularly encroached on the routes registered in the name of Nanduwe,” he said. “The Department of Roads and Transport appeals to the members of both taxi associations to abide by the ruling." Vadi said that if any party is unhappy or aggrieved with the ruling, they must follow the due process allowed for in law and lodge an appeal with the National Regulatory Entity. “Acts of violence and intimidation, blockading of roads and disruption of normal taxi services will never resolve the matter and will not result in a different ruling by the provincial regulatory entity,” Vadi emphasised. Complimenting law enforcement agencies for the swift arrests on Tuesday, Vadi called on the provincial and municipal law enforcement agencies to act decisively against acts of lawlessness, violence and intimidation by selected taxi operators in Soweto and to ensure that there is safe passage for commuters traveling on public transport routes. In April three taxi owners from Wata were gunned down next to the U-Save Shoprite centre in Mofolo. Over the last six months, it's believed that more than 10 taxi operators have been killed in Soweto. @Lanc_02   ilanit.chernick@inl.co.za  The Star  