While the youth are being celebrated this month, the musician, whose real name is Thabo Mnisi, is intent on exposing his brand to young people and providing them with a form of expression. The clothing line has been such a hit that it has even caught the attention of local celebrities, who have been spotted rocking his attire. Many more of his fans are flocking to clubs and events where he performs in a bid to get their hands on his wide range of garments. The 25-year-old explained that although his passion has always been about music, as he played at the annual international MTN Bushfire festival in Swaziland last month, he has used musical platforms to expand his expertise with the fashion line. “Music has been my thing ever since high school and varsity,” he told The Star. “While I was a DJ, I started branding myself.” When he started collecting music, people wanted a taste of it. “My selection of music would always stand out. I’d make CDs for people who asked me to compile to play in their cars,” he said. The Durban-based DJ might have a lot on his plate with his DJ stint and now his clothing line, but he insists that he is up for the challenge as he believes they are linked. “I have to be honest and say it is very difficult to balance (music and fashion). The Touch of Soul brand, which has gone viral, has exposed me as a DJ.” He added that being a resident DJ at some of the top clubs around the country had exposed him to many customers who could easily buy his merchandise at the venues where he performs. This includes the popular Bushfire festival, where he sold his TOS gear to the attendees and said the response was “overwhelming”. Although it wasn’t his first time performing at the Swaziland festival, this year was more rewarding for him as he had the opportunity to sell his gear. And with a strong team behind his brand and music, Mnisi has a strong support system of a close group of family and friends who are a part of making the TOS clothing. But what has catapulted him into the fashion world was the TOS brand’s growing clientele, which includes the likes of actor and television presenter Thapelo Mokoena, rappers AKA and Kwesta as well as "Dash" member of hip hop group Dreamteam, who have all endorsed the brand by occasionally wearing the fashionable caps, T-shirts or jackets. The DJ and fashionista has also recently been announced as Vodacom’s NXT LVL ambassador, and he plans to use the powerful platform to effect change with the youth. “Now that I have been made a Vodacom ambassador, I plan on empowering the youth during this month.” “I am going to be getting to know what their dreams are and showing them that it’s possible. I am a young man who started my own thing, which got noticed. I am working hard as a DJ and the brand.”