This is according to a recent survey of intimate moments between people from various countries across the globe. The majority of intimate moments between married people and their lovers are set up via the internet on weekdays. Most online flirts and chats take place between 2pm and 8pm, injecting energy into the afternoon slump. The study was conducted by Victoria Milan, an online dating network for married and attached people looking to cheat. The findings, which were based on data from 5.8million of its active members in 32 countries, revealed which days of the week were the best and busiest for having an extramarital fling or flirt. Victoria Milan founder and chief executive Sigurd Vedal said the study showed there was never a bad time to jump online and interact with like-minded people looking for lovers. “Clearly there are preferred days that people from certain countries choose to flirt with potential lovers and arrange hook-ups, and this comes down to wanting to feel organised before flirting, or saving the hook-up as a reward for the end of the week,” he said. “Our members are so successful each week that Saturdays are quiet online - but it’s probably not so quiet in bedrooms and hotel rooms across these 32 countries.” The survey found that a significant number opted for the beginning of the week to start flirting, said Vedal. Of the countries, eight were in Europe, with New Zealand and Hong Kong joining the crowd who were in the mood on Mondays. Scandinavians opted for Tuesdays to dabble in some raunchy online activity. “Tuesdays are the favourite day for 10 countries that take a little time to wake up and smell the orgasm opportunities, or who prefer to get the week off to an organised start before dabbling in adultery,” said Vedal. With regard to Wednesdays, Vedal said the mid-week monotony was sometimes broken up with some online flirting that generally culminated in a meet-up for some mattress antics. South Africans preferred a late start to online flirting. “They allow themselves to log in on Thursdays, leaving their browsing, chatting and flirting as a delicious reward as the week quietens down and comes to a close,” he said. Friday kicks flirty adulterers from Finland, Australia, Mexico and Peru into action. “These countries log on and give a new and sexy meaning to the phrase ‘Thank goodness it’s Friday’ by arranging meet-ups and flirting online," Vedal said. "The study shows the majority of people successfully find a lover for the weekend by flirting during the week,” said Vedal. Sundays were for sleeping in, and most stuck to the tradition of reserving it for family time. @Karishma_Dipa