The South African format of the popular Australian based
reality cooking competition is finally here. My Kitchen Rules
South Africa, is coming to Cape Town and Durban (June 3 and 4) to host
auditions for the first season, set to air later this year on M-net 101. During auditions home cooks have an opportunity to
impress the judges and go on to meet the first confirmed judge of the reality
show, platinum award-winning singer and songwriter, restaurateur and acclaimed
food enthusiast J’Something and renowned Chef David Higgs in the actually show kitchen. The show promises to dish out drama and delectable dishes
in some serious pressure-cooker settings around South Africa. My Kitchen Rules South Africa will showcase a diverse
range of local foodie pairs who will have to cook and entertain up a
storm in order to go all the way to the final and win some fabulous
prizes. “I am so excited and slightly nervous as it's my first
host role and certainly the first time judging food, but I've done TV before,
and I absolutely love doing things I love and this show speaks directly to what
I'm all about. A home cook,” said J’Something. He said he is looking for South Africans who take home
cooking and give it a big helping of finesse. “I’m looking for people who are passionate about food and
people that can simply put love on a plate. I want to see home cooking with finesse. And that really
is down to being creative and taking something homely and adding character to
it that makes you say wow. Passion is the greatest ingredient in the kitchen. I
want to see passion on a plate. Being prepared is also important. They need to
plan,” he said. The format of the competition will follow the same as the
Australian show whereby 12 pairs of passionate cooks put their reputations and
their dining rooms on the line to wow fellow contestants and two judges with
their flair for food- the second for the South African format is yet to be
confirmed. “I would describe a perfect plate of food from its
textures and balance. The contestants need to think about the elements on the
plate and what they are trying to achieve. But honestly what we are looking for
is love and flavour. But with that being said, contestants need to remember
that we eat with our eyes first,” he said. He said while it is sometimes easier to work alone in a
home kitchen, the heat will be on as each pair tries to work together. “I hope they can manage the heat in the kitchen together.
I think the advantage is being able to do more and they should always remember
that communication is key, especially as the competition stiffens. They need to
become more experimental and should take risks. They need to take what they
learn and implement it so that we can see their growth. They should also be
able to work better and better as a team every week because dynamics in the
kitchen are so important,” said J’Something. In a contest of sheer nerve, grit, determination and
a whole lot of confidence, the teams of home cooks will have to serve up the
hottest dishes in their homes on one pressure cooker night. Drama and tension will boil up; laughter and tears may
erupt; and the timer will tick without mercy. With a big cash prize on offer,
the knives are truly out. The judges as well as the final contestants will
ultimately determine who stays and who gets the chop throughout the series. “If contestants want to make it through to the end, they
need to stay true to who they are,” he said.  Audition details: Cape
Town: June 3 and 4 at International Hotel School, 2nd Floor, 106 Adderley
street, Cape Town Durban:
June 3 and 4 at International Hotel School, 124 Jan Hofmeyr road, Westville,
Durban  Hopefuls
auditioning for the show in these cities will have to prepare a cold dish of
their choice to bring with them to their audition. For more
information about this, as well as how to get a fast track at auditions and
more Frequently Asked Questions, go to www.mnet.tv/mkr