A New York based photography magazine has been inspired to produce an African edition called ‘Platform Africa’ which was launched in Joburg last night. The publication, which is based on the international version called ‘Aperture Magazine’, was celebrated at the Stevenson Gallery in Braamfontein where invited guests flocked to get a glimpse of. The glossy, clean cut ‘special edition features the latest offering of pictures taken by acclaimed as well as amateur photographers from the continent who captured authentic images. The US based magazine is a journal which specialised in photography founded in 1952. ‘Platform Africa’ was produced by guest editors Bisi Silva, John Fleetwood and Aicha Diallo. South African born Fleetwood, who is the director of ‘Photo’, a workshop set-up to mentor aspiring photographers, told The Star that the publication attempts to take an in-depth look at the dynamic spaces that shaped conversations about African photography. He explained that he was hands on during the process of compiling the magazine and was instrumental on how it looked, felt and came together. “The process was in presenting different works of photographers that I have dealt with in different formalities such as mentorships and discussions,” said Fleetwood. Consumer and young photographer Anthony Bila added that he was thrilled about being part of the edition and said that the pictures inside the magazine highlighted both the good and bad aspects of Africa. “I heard about the book through Aperture magazine who approached me to use one of my images as the cover for this edition.” Giving his views on the latest edition Bila said: “ I think it's good, bad and ugly, to be fair.” “What is important is that there is a variety of African photographers both male and female.” He added that each of the featured photographers tell a narrative, through their pictures, through their own perspective. He said that it was interesting that to him that some of the people who were part of the selection process were not necessarily from African. “It was curated by Americans or white guys who might have been born in Africa but their experience of being African is very different to mine as a black South African man,” he said “I think that is where there is a grey area, the art world become a little exclusionary and not inclusive.” “But at the same time there is also the other side of the coin, where they do initiatives and workshops.” Bila believes that real change will come when the people curating the ‘Platform Africa’ magazine are born and raised in Africa. “I think structurally, there is always room for improvement,” he said. The magazine is now available for purchase and costs R350-R380. For more information visit www.phototool.co.za @Zwane_2li2ls