1 medium cauliflower, florets only (about 600g) 1 x 400g tin of butter beans, drained and rinsed (about 240g) 12 sausages 25g parmesan, grated 40g cheddar, grated salt and pepper  TO SERVE sage and onion gravy (see recipe, below) small bunch of parsley, finely chopped steamed greens Preheat the grill to maximum. Bring a large pan of water to the boil and then chuck in the cauliflower florets and the drained butter beans. Simmer for 15 minutes, or until soft. Drain the cauliflower and beans thoroughly and return to the warm pan. While the cauliflower and beans are simmering away, slide the sausages under the grill and cook them for about 12 minutes, turning a couple of times until they are cooked through. While the cauliflower and beans are hot, roughly mash the whole lot together (you won’t end up with a smooth mash; it will still have texture to it). Add both cheeses and stir in to melt. Add a little salt and pepper if you think it needs it. By now your sausages should be cooked, so serve up the cheesy mash with three sausages each and a ladleful of sage and onion gravy. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve with a healthy portion of steamed greens on the side. Sage & onion gravy ½ tbsp sunflower oil 1 large onion, finely sliced salt 6 sage leaves, finely sliced 1 tbsp plain flour splash of sherry vinegar 500ml chicken or beef stock Make the onion gravy by heating the oil in a saucepan over a medium heat and adding the sliced onion. Sprinkle in a pinch of salt and cook the onion slowly for about 10 minutes, stirring regularly, until very soft and lightly browned. Stir in the sage leaves and the flour and, stirring almost constantly, cook for 45 seconds before adding the splash of vinegar, boiling it until it has almost disappeared. Gradually pour in the stock, stirring it well before adding more, to avoid lumps in the gravy. When all the stock is in the pan, bring the gravy to the boil and then keep it warm until you are ready to eat.  Recipes from Cooking for Family & Friends: 100 Lean Recipes to Enjoy Together by Joe Wicks, which is available from Loot.co.za for R299. Click here to purchase the book Daily Mail