While the country gears up to celebrate Youth Day, it is only fitting to reflect on the impact young people have had on the fashion industry. The Star spoke to South African fashion designers Gert Johan Coetzee (GJC), JJ Schoeman (JJ) and Quiteria & George (Q&G).  How do you think South African fashion trends have evolved since the Soweto Uprising in 1976?  JJ: I noticed that trends that once were very popular came back but in a new way and often combined with a trend from a different time: for instance, taking a 1980s inspired item with a twist from the 1990s and adding a vintage item. Using combinations of the different eras, often strangely familiar but new and different at the same time. Mixing it all up and having fun with old concepts in a new way is the new standard for trends. The only new thing is the idea of cross-relating old ideas. Nothing is new for now until technology becomes wearable. Artificial intelligence is on its way and we must be ready for a whole new world.  GJC: In the late 1970s, the casual look that characterised the decade started to go out of fashion and tailored suits came into vogue. For the first time it became fashionable for women to wear pants to any occasion, and the sharp-edged shoulder-padded look of the 1980s made its appearance. The trends we see today have evolved from that era, and what was very controversial then has evolved with the passing years so that we see different trends making a comeback in cycles. Seventies influences were big last season, and at the moment we are seeing those ’80s shoulder pads making a comeback. This doesn’t mean that there are exact copies of the fashions of those eras, but rather modernised versions of them. I like the cyclical nature of fashion, the way we nod to the past while innovating as technology and resources modernise.  Q&G: Silhouettes stay the same. Cultural influences in the time one lives in, be they in politics, music, sexuality it’s all about communication. The future of fashion and current culture is to stay relevant. Very important is to be a storyteller of our generation and the generations to come. Fashion is about moving forward, taking references from the past but continuously moving forward.  How has the youth affected the fashion industry?  JJ: The youth influences fashion by what they wear on the streets, setting trends. The modern kid takes risks and is open to new ideas - completely opposite to how things were a few decades ago. Kids are competing to be the coolest or the most spoken about. They have no fear in what they wear. The youth are looking for everything new. Kids are having fun with fashion as they never have before. No fear!  GJC: Young people have always had a huge impact on the fashion industry because self-expression through fashion is one way the youth explore their own identity. That creativity is where many trends are born. A clever designer is the one who pays attention to what young people are wearing on the streets, because streetwear shapes trends. You are doomed if you think you can prescribe to young people what to wear - they have so much access to information and influences from across the globe that they form their own opinions - and good luck to the designer who thinks he can work in a vacuum without taking note of what the next generation wants.  Q&G: The youth has influenced fashion immensely. Street culture at ground level is quite strong. The youth are fearless in expressing how they feel.  What is the one thing you would like young people to know about the fashion industry that they might not know  already?  JJ: Our planet is the only planet we have. We have to be responsible for the effects of our carbon footprint we leave behind. Our fashion choices impact on the planet and we are slowly destroying its balance. Plastics (packaging) take hundreds of years to disintegrate. Fabric and leather dyes pollute our natural water in rivers. Throwaway fashion dumps contaminate our planet. Real leather products are only obtainable by killing an animal. Cruelty to animals is a real issue, with fake labels of origin or description used on imported products - especially from the East. Fake fur products or fake leather products are often genuine cat or dog hides. Certainly, humanity combined with technology can find a way to recreate old methods in a greener and safer way. It just takes a little bit of consciousness and awareness for where and how we live or choose to live. Our approach should be quality over quantity. We can choose to destroy the planet or give it life, it’s our choice and we must make an intelligent choice when it comes to fashion.  GJC: To make a success in the fashion industry requires much the same elements you’d need to be successful in the corporate world. It is not just about drawing designs and sewing dresses, you need a strategic business plan in place to present your brand to the world. It is 95% dedication and hard work and 5% glamour. People tend to think it’s the other way around and they are so wrong. Business skills are of the utmost importance in the fashion industry.  Q&G: Fashion is not always glitz and glam. Behind the scenes there is a lot of work that will require sleepless nights to get garments ready. Young future designers must learn to absorb as much as they possibly can, and most importantly, wait for the right time. You will know when it comes.  What do you regard as the biggest challenges in the fashion industry?  JJ: One of the biggest difficulties for me is finding an ideal space to rent, which is tricky for many reasons. One wants to be in the middle of the action at an affordable price. The shopping centres charge exorbitant fees. Designers have to rent a second space for manufacturing. Cheaper spaces are in areas that are not so attractive, so clients are not keen to pop in. To buy a house is ideal, but houses with enough space and in a desirable area are very expensive. Basic running costs are just so high. Over the years I worked with many different members of staff, and very few really knew their job, no matter how much experience they had. So I train existing staff members daily to try to perfect their skills. Students who graduate from different fashion schools are not of the same standard as in the days when I completed my training. I often feel stunned that the skills levels of students in their third year are like those of a beginner or first-year. There is space for better education. Now and then one finds a student who knows what he or she is doing and is truly talented. Raw fabrics are expensive and it’s hard to find everything to produce the best: for instance, zips and buttons and linings. One has to use what is available, and there aren’t many choices. Small businesses are overlooked by government, there is no support for everybody, it is very selective, which is sad.  GJC: The fashion industry in South Africa is still in its infancy, and that comes with major challenges such as fabric and technology restrictions, something all designers here have to overcome. We are still showing the world what South Africa is capable of in this industry. On the positive side, this allows room for growth and creativity because we find our own ways to work around the problems and this helps make us so unique.  Q&G: The struggles are to be able to source a variety of exclusive fabrics that set you apart from the rest. Financial back-up, which allows the growth of the business to be sustainable, is also essential. @Zwane_2li2ls