Dlamini Zuma was speaking on Tuesday at the 19th African Energy Forum in Copenhagen, Norway, where she received a Lifetime Achievement Award for Inspirational Leadership. The former AU leader, who stepped down earlier this year, said the award addressed the critical issue of energy, which is highlighted in Agenda 2063 - a strategic framework established during her tenure in Addis Abba and which has become the main focus for many African countries. Pointing out the benefits of energy in the education and health sectors, Dlamini Zuma said energy was important to harness economic development. Without it, she said, it was near impossible to run effective manufacturing, mining or any other business. “The African continent, as part of its global commitments to stem and reverse climate change, has seen a concerted focus on renewable energy, most specifically the Green Clean Energy Corridor and various country initiatives. “The AU and the African Development Bank committed to the goal of delivering at least 300GW of power to the continent by 2030 - all from clean energy.” Dlamini Zuma highlighted the  role energy played in the emancipation of women, saying access to it not only freed them from the burden of fulfilling household chores but also assisted in carving sustainable career paths for them. “It is so important that we develop and promote women entrepreneurs and policy-makers in the energy sector (such as government ministers), because they understand the difficulty of family life without electricity, of having to give birth in the dark and the dangers of unlit streets when their girls and children have to walk home.” Dlamini Zuma, who donated her $30000 (R385542) prize money to the women of Guinea Bissau, reminded delegates that Agenda 2063, called on all to harness African energy resources to ensure modern, efficient, reliable, cost-effective, renewable and environmentally friendly energy to all African households, businesses, industries and institutions and other sectors. “I am glad for the work done by the Africa Energy Forum over the past 19 years and look forward to welcoming you next year in Mauritius. I encourage you to continue until we reach that critical tipping point in energy access,” she said. The ANC congratulated Dlamini Zuma, who is a member of the party’s national executive committee, saying her progressive role on the continent elevated South Africa and the continent at large to higher standards in uplifting and empowering women. - Staff Reporter