With Youth Month coming to an end, SABC3 and Win A Home have launched an opportunity for six young designers to compete and showcase their skills.On Tuesday, the local reality show officially launched its fourth season aimed at giving away a home worth R3 million to a viewer. The house is in the luxury residential estate Eye of Africa, south of Joburg. The competition will see the six designers grouped into three teams of two to stand a chance of winning a R100 000 cash prize.The pairs will design and decorate the interiors of three homes, and one viewer will win one of the houses. Close friends Banele Khoza 23, and Tshepo Sealetsa, 25 said they look forward to working together because of their different backgrounds in design. We need to find a mid point to our two different styles, said Sealetsa, who studied interior design. Khoza did fine arts.Partners Abiah Mahlase, 30, and Bradley Muttitt, 36, have already been dubbed crowd favourites because of their bubbly personalities. Both are known for their work in the fashion industry and have found themselves in new territory with interior design. They say viewers should &quot;expect the unexpected and a little crazy&quot; from them.At the event, Mahlase wore a male figure made of wood on his back, and Muttitt had on a luxury robe.FLAMBOYANT: Partners in fashion and fabulous, Bradley Muttitt and Abiah Mahlase, are ready to take on the challenges. Picture: Itumeleng English We are excited to use our fashion aesthetic and flare and apply it to interior design, said Mahlase.Lesego Masekela, 23, and her partner, just calling himself Mpho, 25, said they expected a roller-coaster emotional ride, which might include some tears. No person can design the same thing twice. So coming from the three duos there is definitely going to be variety, said Masekela.The pair said they looked forward to the exposure the reality show would give them.Jeannie D and Danilo Acquisto, who will be presenting the reality show during a Friday Afternoon Express time slot, said viewers should expect the best in interior design throughout the show when it starts to air next month. @Zwane_2li2ls