The annual Dullstroom Winter Festival, which takes place this weekend in the small town, is a family-friendly affair. Dubbed Christmas in July, the Mpumalanga event is an easy drive from Gauteng and promises to be a treat. “Dullstroom loves celebrating Christmas in July, and visitors can enjoy shops and eateries in full-festive gear while sparkling Christmas lights at night will add a magical vibe,” event organisers said. Award-winning local rock band Prime Circle will top the festival line-up. “This year, we welcome Prime Circle as our headline act,” the organisers said. The band will be supported by the Ultra Natives, a group which boasts as members Greg Georgiades, one of South Africa’s renowned multi-instrumentalists; Jaco Manson on steel-string acoustic guitar and vocals; Jonathan Georgiades on bass; and David Georgiades on drums. Also among the line-up highlights for the festival are alternative rock band Kinky Robot. Jacaranda FM’s Thabiso Khambule, known as DJ Cyco, is the master of ceremonies for the event. “The shows will be staggered throughout the weekend and range from unplugged intimate shows to an afternoon concert on the Dullstroom Dam headlining Prime Circle from 12.30pm to 4.30pm,” the organisers said. But the music doesn’t stop at the festival itself as the entire town is ready for a party. “Festival fans will hear the sound of music all weekend as they wander around the town,” the organisers said. There will also be exhibitions, including one from the Street Rod Club, which will showcase their 1950s-inspired hand-built vehicles outside the Dullstroom Inn on Saturday morning. Organisers have made special efforts to ensure the festival is a family event being held during the winter school holidays. “This family-friendly festival from Friday to Sunday features both indoor and outdoor live-music shows, some free and some paid for.” There will be a kids’ zone with jumping castles and other fun, such as face painting. Tickets for the Dullstroom Winter Festival cost R120 for adults, R50 for teens, while children under 12 will get in for free. See www.dullstroomwinterfestival.com