Yesterday, the official opposition party’s coalition partner in the crucial Gauteng metros, the EFF, led the charge in rejecting the decision to suspend her only from party activities and not from her position. The party’s top brass yesterday passed the decision on her fate amid mounting pressure that Zille should relinquish her powerful post in the only province the party governs. Last night, political analysts also warned of more damage to the party in the run-up to 2019 if the DA does not dislodge Zille. This as her supporters in the Western Cape reaffirmed their support for her. The EFF said the suspension only from party activities was “playful” and showed that the DA cared more about itself than South Africans. “If her disciplinary process means it is important that she does not participate in DA activities, why is this not also the case with government?” the EFF asked. “What makes DA decision-making structures more important than the people’s government structures that she presides over as premier?” Zille had until Tuesday to explain to the party’s federal executive (Fedex) why she should not be suspended. Fedex chairperson James Selfe said it was decided by an “overwhelming majority” to officially suspend Zille until such time as her disciplinary hearing, starting tomorrow, was concluded. The Fedex agreed that Zille’s tweets on colonialism “breaks down public trust, stunts South Africa’s reconciliation imperative, and undermines our political project”. However, in her submissions to the Fedex, Zille remained defiant, saying it was clear from DA leader Mmusi Maimane’s announcement on her suspension on Saturday that he had prejudged her.“This initial material failure to comply with due process has serious implications. The leader (Maimane) has, in a public statement, made it clear that he wants me suspended and has already decided to suspend me,” she said. “This puts the Fedex in an impossible position to make an objective determination, whatever the merits of my arguments against suspension. In any event, the Fedex has equally compromised itself on this decision,” Zille said in her submission.