Pikitup and the Johannesburg Roads Agency were found to have been non-compliant in “inadequate contract management”. Pikitup was at the time of the audit period, embroiled in controversy with its former head Amanda Nair, who was  implicated in multimillion-rand corruption. She was dismissed in October after investigations and months of protests by the SA Municipal Workers’ Union. The AG report for the 2015/16 financial year indicated that City of Joburg was one of the three in the province that did not approve water infrastructure management policies. This, the report warned, might have an adverse impact on the municipalities’ ability to deliver services. Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba blamed the poor performance on the previous ANC-led administration. “The audit outcomes illustrate poor attention to financial management practices under the previous government. “This was also manifested in the failure to adequately investigate cases of unauthorised irregular and fruitless expenditure over years,” the mayor said. Overall, Gauteng’s municipalities regressed with only one municipality - the DA-run Midvaal - obtaining a clean audit. Three municipalities: Ekurhuleni, Sedibeng and Mogale City - regressed in the 2015/16 financial year from a clean audit to a qualified opinion with findings. “The regression at Ekurhuleni and Mogale City was due to compliance with supply-chain management prescripts not being monitored adequately,” the report stated. Regarding Midvaal, the DA’s spokesperson for co-operative governance Kevin Mileham said the latest audit results proved that where the DA governs, money is spent on service delivery and is “not lost on irregular, unauthorised, fruitless and wasteful expenditure”. The report also indicates that Gauteng municipalities’ financial health was still constrained and they still face huge challenges in collecting revenue from residents. Makwetu recommended they pay attention to their debt-collection processes and proper financial spending to allow them to improve service delivery. Other areas highlighted were City of Joburg projects that included Fleurhof mixed-housing where 11000 mixed-development units were constructed. “Overall the units built were of basic quality with an improvement in the standard of workmanship noted from the previous year,” the report stated.