This was the bold admission by ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe yesterday, after stalwarts of the party, on the eve of the five-day event, ditched it. “It is (a matter of life and death) in a sense that you have an organisation that is going through a very difficult period and you have a policy conference. "You sit with your veterans and stalwarts, you quibble about the form, rather than the content
(of the conference),” Mantashe said in a wide-ranging interview with The Star yesterday. “On the basis of the form, they walk away. That is a reflection of the health of the organisation and we must be open about things that reflect directly on the ANC and be able to come up with responses,” he added. Mantashe said the biggest liability the party faced today was infighting, which started as far back as 2005. Many ANC members, he added, regarded their factions as more important than the organisation itself. Mantashe was today due to present behind closed doors a “diagnostic” report which will delve into the serious problems besieging the ANC. He admitted that they had
not been able to forge unity among their structures and that they were also grappling with enforcing discipline. Most of the problems started in 2005, when branches of the ANC revolted and pushed for then deputy president Jacob Zuma to be reinstated, after he was fired by then president Thabo Mbeki, in the wake of corruption allegations. Since then, Mantashe said, they had struggled to unite the fractured party. The situation was made worse by the loss of technical capacity at Luthuli House, the ANC's Joburg headquarters, since they deployed their best cadres to the government after 1994. “The capacity of the ANC was almost destroyed at the point
of ascending to power because when we ascended to power,
we took everybody with content to government and left the party empty. “So we are coming here with the ANC that has been grappling with losing capacity that is in government, which is ANC capacity,” he said. “The problem is not in that technical capacity; the problem is in the political divisions and fights. This is why, to me, it is quite important to trace that from 2005. “The biggest liability to the ANC is the divisions of ANC structures where people believe factions are more important than the body itself,” he added. Mantashe reiterated his stance that the problems besetting
the party could not be blamed
only on Zuma, and also could not be resolved by the removal of the president. There were fears that responding to calls within and outside
of the organisation to remove
Zuma could lead to a split in the party, similar to that of Cope, which was formed after Mbeki was recalled. Mantashe said even stalwarts such as Andrew Mlangeni could not share how to deal with calls for Zuma’s removal. “The only person who can deal with that issue is Tat’*  (Andrew) Mlangeni, who has been in the ANC since 1945 and served under seven different presidents. “Therefore we are building experience as we walk on that issue. "When you sit where I am sitting, you do an analysis of
what would happen if you re-
move a sitting president of the ANC, who still has a lot of visible support within the body of the organisation. “You can take a position to be correct in the public and fire him (Zuma), and hope you will deal with the chaos that will follow, or be cautious of the possibility of chaos with that removal, which is a reality.
"We have been saying let’s manage this thing more carefully than being agitated by convenience,” he added. The party would also be going to the conference against the backdrop of an ailing economy, which threatens to derail the National Development Plan and the fight against unemployment, inequality and poverty. Mantashe said these pressing issues could not wait for the party’s elective conference in December and would be dealt with in the next few days. “The fact that we are in recession can’t wait for December. The fact that we have been downgraded can’t wait for December. The fact that unemployment has grown can’t wait for December,” he said. The party’s national working committee and national executive committee had also battled with disciplining some of its members. Mantashe said that if the party pursued discipline the way that had been suggested, “there would be nothing left”. “Actually, half the time you always blame the integrity commission, that it is not doing its work. "I can tell you that people who have been asked to step aside by that integrity commission, that number is too high because it reflects the health of the organisation,” he said. See pages 4 and 14