This was the accusation by ANC stalwart Murphy Morobe, explaining to The Star why they have decided to boycott the party’s policy conference starting today in Nasrec, Joburg. The stalwarts, among them all remaining members of those imprisoned after the Rivonia Treason Trial, wanted a consultative conference to discuss what they call the crises plaguing the ANC. The party’s national executive committee (NEC) announced earlier this year that the first two days of the policy conference would be set aside for the consultative conference the veterans had called for. But there has been a fallout as the stalwarts wanted the consultative conference to be separate from the policy conference. Morobe told The Star they had a meeting with the ANC’s national working committee last year, informing the structure that they wanted a separate event. “We then met with the president and other members of the Top 5, who wanted us to explain our motivation for the separation of conferences so that he, the president, could take this back to the NEC. We gave the president our motivation,” Morobe explained. “But, from all we have heard, that discussion was not taken back to the NEC, which restated its position that it is not separating the conference.” He added that the policy conference would have benefited from a separate consultative conference as key points would have been raised, which would have assisted the formulation and implementation of the party’s policies. “The consultative conference is a conference with a very different emotion; people will fight there, people will want to scratch each other’s eyes out. You can’t do that today, and then tomorrow you discuss policies nicely,” Morobe said. He was speaking on the sidelines of a briefing held by the stalwarts in Joburg yesterday. The group - which is a structure not recognised by the ANC - contended in a statement that the “ANC is rapidly losing the legitimacy and trust of our people”. “The longer the crisis in our movement and country... the deeper the crisis will become.” ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe told reporters yesterday that the stalwarts - who were invited to the conference  by the party - were missing an opportunity by failing to attend. Mantashe accused them of trying to run the ANC parallel to the party’s NEC,  the highest decision-making body in the party. Meanwhile, the party’s alliance partners are likely to put on ice calls for Zuma to step down. SACP spokesperson Alex Mashilo said: “We are invited guests and can only participate within the parameters of the gathering. “If you are invited to a wedding, you cannot arrive there and say you want to conduct a funeral,” Mashilo joked. Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla echoed these sentiments. “We need to come out of the conference feeling that the ANC can be trusted to implement its policies. “If the ANC don’t acknowledge that the 2016 local government election was a message from the electorate to change, then they are in trouble.”