This as opposition parties in the legislature called for Zille to resign yesterday. The provincial ANC, EFF and UDM have also urged Zille to step down, after the DA’s federal executive decision to serve Zille with a notice of intention to suspend her from the party’s activities. Zille has until tomorrow to give reasons why her DA membership should not be suspended. DA acting leader Bonginkosi Madikizela said opposition parties in the Western Cape had nothing to offer except “ridiculous” statements. “The ANC must first remove Zuma, who is implicated on countless offences. We’ve taken action against Helen Zille, she hasn’t been found guilty yet, so why should we support such a ridiculous call?” said Madikizela. EFF provincial leader Bernard Joseph said: “The DA at last realise that Zille is an undercover racist. Everything that is done in the dark will be exposed in the light. “The EFF is not surprised that Zille has been suspended from a party that was built on lies, promises and non-deliverance to the poorest of the poor.” ANC acting chairperson Khaya Magaxa said: “The ANC repeats its call for the DA’s disgraced past leader Helen Zille to immediately resign as Western Cape premier. She has also humiliated the province and its people with her continuous Twitter attack on people of colour.” Zille faces the axe for allegedly violating the DA’s social media policy after insinuating in a tweet that colonialism was not all bad. At the weekend, party leader Mmusi Maimane announced Zille’s suspension. Hours later, the party’s federal executive said it had written to Zille to signify its intention to temporarily suspend her from party activities until the conclusion of the disciplinary proceedings. “Zille’s social media commentary and public utterances in connection with colonialism undermined our reconciliation project, and there was no question her original tweets and subsequent justifications had damaged the party’s standing in the public mind,” Maimane said. He added that Zille continued to damage the party with various pieces of communication that sought to undermine what the party had tried to achieve. According to Maimane, Zille had declined to apologise to South Africans and the DA for the damage she had done. Zille fired back, saying she had not accepted that the DA had a right to find her guilty and penalise her before the hearing even took place. James Selfe, the chairperson of the DA’s federal executive, said Zille still had time to make representations. “There is a separation of power, so she would be able to continue with her work. The suspension would not affect her work as premier,” he said.