The Incredible Happenings Church leader on Tuesday had his Joburg High Court application, to interdict Mkhwanazi-Xaluva from defaming him in public, struck off the roll. In addition, Motsoeneng
was ordered to pay CRL’s legal costs. Motsoeneng wanted Mkh-
wanazi-Xaluva to backtrack on her intentions to lay charges against him for refusing to appear in front of the commission during its probe into the commercialisation of churches in the country. He wanted the notice compelling him to appear before the commission suspended. In court papers, Motsoeneng said Mkhwanazi-Xaluva had attacked his dignity on a number of occasions, adding that she called him a “false prophet, a corn artist (sic), that he is stealing money from the public and he is a criminal” on television. He said the commission had not received any complaint against him and his church. “There was no intimation that there is even a suspicion that the applicants are suspected of commercialising religion or of any abuse on their part; instead the applicants were chosen at random.” Speaking to The Star on Tuesday, Motsoeneng said he was contemplating reapplying for his matter to be reinstated onto the urgent court roll. “I will sit down with my lawyers and see what's the way forward because we are still waiting for the SABC footage in which the chairperson (Mkhwanazi-Xaluva) made remarks about me,” he said. Asked whether he would pay the CRL’s legal costs,
Motsoeneng said: “Ntate Mboro is a law-abiding citizen. Therefore I will do as the law
directs me.” To add insult to injury, Motsoeneng was on Friday served with a protection order from Mkhwanazi-Xaluva, who said she feared for her life. CRL Rights Commission spokesperson Mpiyakhe Mkholo said the order was granted on Thursday and served to Motsoeneng on
Friday. “The processes that were there before the urgent application was made will continue. The case opened against Mboro at Hillbrow police station is being investigated as well,” Mkholo said. Motsoeneng has on numerous occasions dismissed allegations that he threatened to harm the CRL chairperson as untrue. The Star