It's down to the top three finalists for the MTV Base VJ Search as the competition draws to a close this Sunday. The finalists beat out 8000 other people who tried their luck to become the next presenter for the show. The last female standing, Kuhle Adams, said she believed in the culture and the brand of MTV. FIRST LADY: Kuhle Adams beat out thousands of hopefuls to be the only girl in the top three. Picture: Supplied. “I want to be able to promote black culture and MTV is a great platform for even more opportunity and a great start to my career.” The final year industrial sociology and environmental science student said the competition had been an emotional one. “It has been great and I had to overcome a lot and pushed myself beyond my comfort zone.” One of the challenges was to deliver a link while bungee jumping backwards. “Sandile(MTV VJ) was there to encourage us. It wasn’t easy to do and to be able to still try your best was a big thing for me. I was crying and emotional but I was proud of myself for doing it,” she said. The 21-year-old said she had definitely been hit by the entertainment bug. “I want to continue in entertainment. One day I want to own a media house or production company and maybe one day even host a talk show.” CULTURE VULTURE: Gontse Makgoba is all about representing his peers. Picture: Supplied.  Gontse Makgoba, the youngest finalist at 19, said he was happy and excited to have been chosen. “I was kind of expecting it and not expecting it at the same time because so many people were so good.” The youngster is taking a gap year and decided to try out for the competition. “I feel like I portray the culture in a good way and represent the music, lifestyle and brand for all the kids who aren’t recognised. We are out there trying to make it in the industry and for something like this to happen it really means a lot.” Makgoba is from Diepkloof in Soweto and he wants to be able to represent and share the music, fashion and artistry of his peers.  He said the competition had been both fun and challenging as it was the first time he had ever tried presenting out. “It’s taught me a lot about the industry. From the outside it looks like it is so easy but as we went through the challenges we got to see what really goes on/ The preparation, editing, links and all that goes into making the production a success. It was a major one for me because I have always been interested in the behind the scenes.” His biggest challenge was when the contestants had to shoot a link with a python. “Delivering the link with the reptiles was something else. I’m not a fan of snakes and it was scary but fun. I got to overcome my fear while doing something I love.” Makgoba said he had always been interested in entertainment but also wanted to help his community.“There is so much going on right now in the country and I want to uplift the youth. So many people have talent but their situations don’t allow them to get to their dreams.” RISING TO THE OCCASION: Tshego Mosupye wants to make it to the top. Picture: Supplied.  Tshego Mosupye from Naturena has always wanted to be in the entertainment space as well. “I’ve loved television and wanted to be in that space- whether in music or production. Presenting is a platform to be able to talk to more than one person and interact with people/ It also allows you to have an influence on the culture and be able to challenge people and their thought processes. That’s always been my mission.” The 26-year-old is doing a course in personal training at the moment and said the competition had been exciting. “It’s been stressful, you know that something big is happening and you have to adapt to it. There are people who want it as badly as you. It’s been exciting getting to meet the people you look up to and getting advice from them.” He said the process had been a learning curve that allowed him to learn more about the industry. “In essence it was about the industry; becoming socially aware and engaging with current affairs. Seeing the whole process of shooting and production was amazing.” He was most challenged with the swimming segment the contestants had to do. “I’m not the best swimmer in the world but I made it to the other side.” Mosupye said he would also be staying in entertainment after the show wrapped up. “I felt like I belonged there. I didn’t feel I was under pressure and would like to do so much more and grow in other avenues like producing and directing.” The winner, who will be announced on Sunday, will walk away with a 12 month contract to host MTV Base shows. Voting is open to the public and closes on Saturday, August 26. The finale will be hosted at Icon in Pimville Soweto on Sunday, August 27 and the final episode will air on the same night on MTV Base (DStv Channel 322) at 7pm CAT.  @mane_mpi