And an analyst warned that the motion would not succeed because it would not receive support across the parties in Parliament. The United Democratic Movement, Cope and the African Christian Democratic Party said yesterday they did not back the motion tabled by DA chief whip John Steenhuisen. Analyst Somadoda Fikeni of Unisa said he doubted the motion would succeed “because the ANC is still the majority party in Parliament”. “Some opposition parties, still reeling from the local government elections and with loans to pay, would not have the appetite for the elections,” Fikeni predicted. “And other parties would not want to be seen to be short-changing the government.” Fikeni warned that the DA was trying too hard - and using every possible tactic - to achieve one goal, and this would not work. The EFF said it rejected the DA’s motion and described the party as being disingenuous. “If the DA truly wants Parliament to be dissolved, all they need to do is to resign all their members, as well as their party from parliament in line with section 46 (1) of the Constitution which states that the ‘National Assembly consists of no fewer than 350 and no more than 400 members.’ “Once the DA, which has 89 members resigns, Parliament would not meet the constitutional requirements as per section 46 and thus would dissolve,” said EFF spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said his party would not support the DA motion. He said of immediate importance was that the Electoral Commission of SA would not be ready for the elections. Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota said they also did not support the motion by the DA to dissolve Parliament. He said they were not consulted by the party, adding that the motion would not succeed if it was not supported by other parties. Rev Kenneth Meshoe said his ACDP did not support the DA motion. Meshoe said they had not been consulted by the DA on the motion to dissolve Parliament. “We don’t support the motion. What the DA should have done was to communicate with other parties and give reasons. They cannot succeed on their own,” said Meshoe. The SACC said it did not support the move to dissolve Parliament and hold elections. It said multiple views were needed in a democratic state like South Africa, and divergent views must not be suppressed. “In this context also, the SACC cautions against the opposition calls for dissolving Parliament. Even though the SACC national conference made a similar call in June, that was based on the conference’s disappointment with Parliament for their failure on the Nkandla matter, and over this a meeting is pending with the Speaker. But to call for elections as a response to the failed no-confidence vote is not helpful at this point.” Parliament’s spokesperson, Moloto Mothapo, confirmed that a motion had been received. “The proposed motion was received from the DA, and it will be subjected to normal parliamentary processes in line with the rules,” he said.