Yesterday, Minister of International Relations and Co-operation Maite Nkoana-Mashabane announced that she had written to Speaker Baleka Mbete concerning the diplomatic immunity granted to the Zimbabwean first lady. Nkoana-Mashabane on Sunday cited the need to continue strong diplomatic relations between SA and Zimbabwe as one of the government’s reasons for pardoning Grace on assault charges after she assaulted model Gabriella Engels with an extension cord on her forehead. Engels, 20, laid charges against the first lady following the incident, which took place at a Sandton hotel after Grace found the young woman with her two sons. Speaking shortly after she had concluded a media briefing at her department in Pretoria yesterday, Nkoana-Mashabane used the platform to outline what has been done so far on the case. “We are following the law. We have written to Parliament and we will follow up on this matter,” she said. The minister added that, as a mother, the controversy surrounding Grace had been a painful exercise for her. Late yesterday, AfriForum filed a review application at the Pretoria High Court, 
asking it to set aside a decision by Nkoana-Mashabane to 
grant diplomatic immunity to Grace. Engels has stated in an affidavit that the Foreign States Immunities Act (1981) “explicitly excludes the granting of immunity to heads of state who are guilty of the death or injury of people in South Africa”. The affidavit added: “If heads of state themselves do not receive immunity in such a case, there is no way that their spouses or families can qualify for it.” Meanwhile, reacting to the mudslide disaster that has hit Sierra Leone following floods in parts of West Africa, Nkoana-Mashabane said the government had expressed its heartfelt condolences to the people of Sierra Leone. She said SA’s initial plan was to send a search, rescue and recovery operation team under its Urban Search and Rescue team, but due to difficulties and constraints relating to weather conditions in the various regions, the government would no longer be doing so but would rather make a financial contribution of R8 million for humanitarian assistance to the UN World Food Programme. The minister said that the public and corporates had to come on board in assisting in relief efforts. Oxfam South Africa has also made a call for action, saying it too stands with the people of Sierra Leone, adding that it continues to provide clean water and hygiene kits to survivors in the poverty-stricken outskirts of the capital Freetown and helping thousands of households. To help: SMS Relief to 38510. SMSes charged at R10.