The EFF’s national chairperson, advocate Dali Mpofu, who is one of the lawyers representing widows and miners injured in the 2012 massacre, said the government was using dishonest means to cause friction between the legal team and the families. He was addressing hundreds of people gathered in Marikana, North West, to commemorate the fifth anniversary since 34 miners were killed on August 16 during a wage strike. “There has been no justice for Marikana in five years and it’s a disgrace. This government continues to torture our people. Five times they have gone to the newspapers saying they have 
R1.8 billion ready to pay to families as compensation. They claim to have spoken to families. “These are all lies. This government goes to court every day for lawsuits and they know that they can only communicate to our clients through us lawyers. We were warned that they did this to divide us and make it look like we are keeping the money for ourselves,” he said. Mpofu also said the talks of compensation between them and the government started in 2016. He said this was only because municipal polls were nearing. “Since then, there has been dololo (no) compensation talks. The time has come for (President Jacob) Zuma  to stop fooling our people,” added Mpofu. In December, the Presidency announced it was ready to compensate the families and victims in line with the recommendations of the Farlam Commission of Inquiry, which Zuma appointed to investigate the massacre. In a statement, the Presidency said the SAPS had instructed its lawyers to make offers of payment in full settlement of claims. This was followed by the government appointing an actuary to calculate the claims. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa warned the widows to ignore the government’s advances. “The ANC will use its intelligence to cause infighting. When they contact you or make offers, talk to your lawyers and call press conferences to let the media know what is happening. Don’t entertain them in private.” DA leader Mmusi Maimane was also not optimistic about the compensation being a reality. “What happened here deserves justice. All the money that government wasted on the Guptas and Nkandla should come here. But the government will never compensate you because by doing that they will be admitting guilt.” EFF leader Julius Malema pleaded for people not to forget the events of 2012 and said it should be given the same status and importance as other atrocities that occurred in the country. “This day must be celebrated in South Africa and across the continent. It’s no different from June 16 and the Sharpeville Massacre. It must not only be celebrated here because this day does not exclusively belong to any individual, it belongs to everybody in this country.” The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union’s treasurer, Jimmy Gama, said Amcu was forging ahead to force the government to declare the day a national holiday. He said the union’s members had prepared themselves to work on Workers’ Day (a public holiday) and not report for duty on August 16. The Marikana commemoration has become a major event in the area, with young and old making their way to the koppie where the killings occurred. Some people travelled from as far as the Eastern Cape. Children from nearby squatter camps took the day off school while some entrepreneurs erected makeshift stalls to sell food and beverages, including alcohol. @lindilesifile