The suspects, facing alleged crimes such as murder, culpable homicide and robbery, were being escorted by officers - known only as Warrant Officer Machete and a Constable Nthangeni - to Johannesburg Correctional Services from the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court. This was according to a source close to the investigation, who said the Mercedes-Benz ambushed the police truck along Pat Mbatha Road, near the Westgate BRT station, which is less than a kilometre from the court. "A white Mercedes travelling in front of the prisoners' truck suddenly stopped. Three occupants jumped out and pointed rifles at the driver," said the source, who asked to remain anonymous. “A third person proceeded to the rear of the truck with a bolt cutter and clipped off the lock. All three suspects wore balaclavas and gloves.” The source added that two prisoners were put into the alleged getaway car and drove off, with no shots fired and no injuries reported. The others fled on foot. The source added that the SAPS’s employment, health and wellness team was called in to provide counselling to the officers who were under attack. “It is possible that the two prisoners who escaped in the Mercedes were Nkosana Thotobolo and Mnyanezeni Shabangu. They were attending their robbery case in the Protea Glen, Soweto, Magistrate’s Court number 13,” the source pointed out. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said a massive manhunt had been launched for the 20 awaiting-trial prisoners, one of whom had already been sentenced to 17 years' imprisonment for armed robbery. The source said the convicted prisoner was a man called Mpho Chipo, who was arrested for a crime committed in 2011. Other escapees included Mark "Kappie" Hunter, for murder; Kebi Kodugure, also for murder; and Ginondine Sandel, for attempted murder. Dlamini said further details of the prisoners would be released at a later stage as the investigation was continuing. Anyone with information can call the police's 24-hour crime line on 0860010111. @khayakoko88