House chairperson Cedric Frolick told parties in the meeting of the programming committee yesterday that they would deal with the question of funding committees to investigate state capture. The intervention of Frolick came after the portfolio committee on public enterprises and the mineral resources committee complained about a lack of resources to deal with the matter. The IFP and DA said during the meeting that there was a great need for extra funds to investigate state capture. “We need to recognise that the committees should be resourced financially to deal with this matter,” said IFP chief whip Narend Singh. DA deputy chief whip Mike Waters said Frolick and other leaders of Parliament had to empower the committees. Frolick said there was a process to deal with the matter, and he would discuss it with the relevant committees probing state capture. Frolick added that there was "no need to panic" because the matter was receiving the necessary attention from Parliament. He had instructed four committees in Parliament to investigate allegations of state capture. The committees are public enterprises, mineral resources, transport and home affairs. Frolick told the meeting they were committed to dealing with the matter of securing the resources for the committees. “I must reaffirm our commitment to deal with the matter in a transparent manner to ensure the executive is held accountable,” he said. Frolick said he had written to the committees, and there would be no duplication of the work that would be done by the various committees, although some of the work might overlap. “The inquiry into Eskom is receiving the necessary attention,” he noted. The public enterprises committee, chaired by Zukiswa Rantho, appointed three MPs, including Rantho, to meet with Speaker Baleka Mbete and other senior leaders of Parliament to discuss the funding of the committees. MPs said the funding of their work would be small compared to the billions of rand they wanted to recover from the Guptas. They said the longer Parliament delayed, the more that billions of rand continued to leave the country every day. The public enterprises committee has said it wanted President Jacob Zuma’s son Duduzane and the Guptas to come and testify in Parliament regarding state capture.