The toxicology report released by the sheriff’s office in Palm Beach yesterday revealed he had so many drugs in his system it was a wonder he could get behind the wheel of his Mercedes at all, let alone drive. The former world No 1 had five different medications running through his body when he was found by police. Woods said in the days after his arrest that he had suffered an “unexpected reaction” to the drugs he was taking, which prompts the question as to what reaction he was expecting, exactly, when so dosed up? The downward spiral caused through his constant back problems and the insomnia that followed was illustrated by the grim cocktail he had taken: two painkillers, Vicodin and Dilaudid; two sleep drugs, Xanax and Ambien; and a muscle relaxant that is also the substance the body metabolises after marijuana is consumed. It is not known if Woods had prescriptions for all the drugs, while medical use of marijuana is legal in Florida. Users of Vicodin alone are meant to be warned that their ability to drive a car may be impaired, never mind taking the other four drugs as well. The revelations led to a statement from the Woods camp, and an update on his progress. “As I previously said, I received professional help to manage my medications,” said Woods. “Recently, I had been trying on my own to treat my back pain and a sleep disorder, but I realise now that was a mistake. I am continuing to work with my doctors and 
they feel I have made significant progress.” Woods, 41, was asleep at the wheel in the right lane of the Florida highway when he found by police, with the engine still running. Last week, he agreed to plead guilty to a reduced charge of reckless
driving. On Monday evening, Woods was pictured hosting a celebratory dinner at his restaurant in Jupiter Island, Florida for the PGA Championship winner and his near neighbour, Justin Thomas. As for the state of his back, the 14-time major champion said: “My surgeon is very pleased with how my fusion surgery is healing. I’m right on schedule.” - Daily Mail