SAB Lerumo, in partnership with Ndalo Media, gave the excited women certificates that will go some way in uplifting a generation of black women-owned businesses. One of the participants in SAB Lerumo was Lerato Nakedi, chief executive of Purple Esther Pty, a business aimed at health and safety, as distributors and suppliers of protective clothing and corporate wear for women. “Lerumo involves us as SMMEs (small, medium and micro enterprises) with the knowledge and the market of being in the space (of procurement). This is the real transformation. We have seen with the programme that they literally hold your hand and take you to procurement. If there is a certain aspect that they are looking for, what are the specifications and what is it that they want from you to bring into their company,” Nakedi said. “Being in the programme, I have been in a big corporate, and I am really appreciative of it because it doesn’t end here. “It is not just me looking pretty somewhere in some office space or them just putting money into my company; it’s them saying ‘let us take you and put you into a market access’.” The 40-year-old with a bubbly personality told The Star that the master classes were top notch and the experience allowed for exposure of her business. The programme was structured into nine high-impact master classes that have been running over a three-month period, delivered by key knowledge experts covering a range of topics, from Supply Chain Readiness to B2B Selling to Pitching like a Pro. Nakedi and 10 other black female business women shared their gratitude for the programme and the facilitators who were a helping hand to expose their business. Women from various fields shared their gratitude to SAB Lerumo, such as Mahlape Nyakane, co-founder of MSI Solutions, a strategic business partner for all recruitment and technology needs, and Thuli Radebe, founder of Eyam Projects, an experimental events management services to corporates and the government. Matti Motsumi, Entrepreneurship Centre of Excellence manager at ABInBev Africa Zone, told The Star that SAB Lerumo came about as a result of understanding the shortcomings of procurement organisation and how, as a result, black women-owned companies were lagging behind from a representation perspective in supply chain. Motsumi said: “I’ve been in procurement for 10 years and I’ve been in the transformation space. We just wanted to start to close the gap. What we also found was that black companies did not have the courage to call a managing director or VP (vice president) procurement. “The programme was intended to give participants insight on the procurement psyche. A lot of business women don’t know that they can negotiate procurement terms, and that they must read a contract clause thoroughly and then ask questions and challenge some of those clauses.” Excited about the partnership with Ndalo Media, Motsumi said: “Ndalo Media is the epitome of our vision that we are now going to touch. “Her spirit is aligned with our spirit. As she spoke today, she focused on mentorship and she articulated how important it was. “She participates with entrepreneurs and their development. The exposure on Ndalo Media/Destiny is phenomenal.” The three-month programme honours black female entrepreneurs by applauding them, and providing a unique market access platform to the nation’s up-and-coming female entrepreneurs. Ndalo Media’s chief executive Khanyi Dhlomo and Seed Academy’s Donna Rachelson, who were among the key speakers at the gathering, held in Kramerville, Sandton, said the case for mentorship was powerful. @Zwane_2li2ls