In the high court sitting in the Moretele Magistrate’s Court in Hammanskraal, north of Pretoria yesterday, Judge Tebogo Djaje sentenced Fikile Mongwe, 36, to an effective 10 years for being an accessory after the fact to murder. Her boyfriend, Innocent Pilusa, 21, received 20 years in jail for the premeditated murder of Selaelo Lekalakala, 61, who was married by custom to Mongwe. Lekalakala’s body was found buried in the bush at Bosplaas late in January after he had been killed on December 30. The two were acquitted on charges that they stole the deceased’s bicycle, boots and cellphone. Pilusa had been living with the couple at their home in Ramotse Section since last year after Mongwe introduced him as her nephew to Lekalakala. The deceased had married Mongwe in 2016 after she had worked for him as a housekeeper since 2014 when his first wife died. In handing down the sentence, the judge struggled to hide her disgust at Mongwe for allowing a young man 15 years her junior to ruin her marriage, watching him kill her husband then helping him to dispose of the body. “You were supposed to be in love with the deceased. However, you disrespected him by having a relationship with a young man whom you then allowed to stay with you in the house of the deceased. The deceased was made a fool in his home. “He was attacked in his home and his wife did nothing to stop her boyfriend (Pilusa) from assaulting him. If you did not want to continue with your marriage with the deceased, you should have divorced him or asked his family to intervene,” said Judge Djaje. She dismissed a mitigation of sentence statement from Mongwe’s lawyer, Xolile Babane, that the widow was not in a good frame of mind just hours after she discovered that her lover had killed her husband. He said that was why she kept following her boyfriend around as he planned ways to get rid of the body. State witness Karrel Khoza testified earlier that Mongwe and Pilusa had coerced him on December 31 to help them get rid of “rubbish” which had been placed in an old bath and covered with blankets. Pilusa paid Khoza R500 for the job but Khoza returned the money after he realised that the rubbish was actually a dead person. He later reported the matter to police. “It is difficult to understand that a mature woman of your age would not know what to do if she discovered that her husband had been killed. You even burnt the blankets that covered your husband’s body and after that you continued to live your life as if nothing had happened.  That is not the reaction of a person in shock,” the judge said. “You showed no remorse or regret. You did not only disrespect the deceased when he was alive, you continued to humiliate him in death and lived with your boyfriend in the deceased’s house. One cannot imagine what your child of 20 is thinking of you.” Mongwe and Lekalakala did not have a child together. Pilusa, who has a child in Tzaneen, had come to Hammanskraal to seek employment when he met Mongwe. Judge Djaje said Pilusa had had good intentions but his love for Mongwe had made him lose focus. Both accused initially pleaded not guilty. However, Pilusa changed his mind during his uncle Robert Pilusa’s testimony of how Pilusa had come to his house to confess to being in love with a married woman. Pilusa came back that night with Mongwe and confessed to having got rid of Lekalakala. @lindilesifile