“I’ve always wanted to do it, but I don’t think I was at a place where mentally I was ready to do it. A one-woman show is a lot of work and it takes a lot of energy and focus,” she said. Khumalo made it a point to stage the show during Women’s Month. “The one thing I know is how to be a woman. I’ve been through a lot of issues that women face and I wanted to do the show during this month, in order to be an inspiration to other women.” The Uthando hit-maker said it was important for her to have other women see the positive things she was doing, to inspire them to do the same in their lives. Tjovitjo disrupts TV patterns Khumalo has had her share of negative publicity and said the scrutiny never gave her the chance to truly enjoy being a musician or find her feet. “A lot has happened and tabloids have always ‘owned’ my story. But now, 13 years later, I feel I am in a space to own my story and my experiences, hence my latest offering, My Truth,” she said. WATCH: Cassper Nyovest flies SA flag high on NYC radio show Khumalo will be taking the audience down memory lane all the way back to her first hit, Itshitshi. “I will be doing the old tracks and also taking them back to my days when I started out in a gospel competition. We are going to capture that” Khumalo said the night would also see a number of collaborations and feature the likes of producer and musician Robbie Malinga and Vusi Nova. Soul singer Brenda Mtambo and Khumalo’s sister Zandi, who is working on her own album, will also perform. Khumalo has carried her monicker “Goddess of Light” for the past three years. “A few years ago, I went on vacation with my best friend. We were in Dar es Salaam going for dinner and we tried to take a picture, but only I was appearing in the photos, and he said to me ‘ukukhanya is on you’. Kelly Khumalo. Picture: StillsByTom “Like the name Nokuk-
hanya and my definition of it is goddess of light,” she said. The SAMA award winner’s latest album, My Truth, is all about her life and who she is as an individual and musician. “I’ve been through a lot in my life, and in everything, I have always been the light.” King Kong: Not the movie, it's the musical Khumalo wants the night to be a memorable one that captures her true essence as a strong woman, who has managed to rise from the many obstacles she has faced. “People always ask where I find my strength, my answer is that I have a strong support system. My family, my friends and, importantly, my supporters. “And this is my way of providing support to other women through my music and personal story. “I want to tell women all over the world that they have the power to rise from any situation, and importantly, from any form of abuse.” * Up Close and Personal with Kelly Khumalo takes place at The Lyric Theatre at Gold Reef City next Thursday at 6pm. Tickets start at R150 and are on sale at Computicket.  The Star   @mane_mpi 