Now known as the “SABC 8”, they received the annual Guardian of Governance Award at a banquet earlier this week, celebrating the 20th Annual Southern Africa Internal Audit Conference at the Sandton Convention Centre. The three-day conference was hosted by the Institute of Internal Auditors SA (Iiasa). Last year, then-public protector Thuli Madonsela was the inaugural recipient of the award, given to those who uphold the prescripts of good governance and display remarkable ethical behaviour. The “SABC 8” are Busisiwe Ntuli, Lukhanyo Calata, Thandeka Gqubule, Foeta Krige, Krivani Pillay, Jacques Steenkamp, Vuyo Mvoko, now a senior news anchor with eNCA, and the late Suna Venter. Specialist television reporter Calata said it was “both humbling and an honour to be recognised by an institution such as the Iiasa”. Executive producer for SAfm, Pillay, said: “It is quite an honour, because the public broadcaster is our (South Africa’s) broadcaster, and there is a need to save it from political and outside pressure.” The “SABC 8” were initially fired by the public broadcaster for protesting against changes to its editorial policy. This was after a unilateral decision by management to not screen visuals of violent service delivery-related 
protests. They were victimised, had their lives threatened and were even shot at. They took their case to the Labour Court, which overturned their axing and they were reinstated. But they faced a barrage of intimidation and threats, both during and after their legal battle. The true horror, however, emerged following radio producer Venter’s death earlier this year. Venter, 32, died of stress cardiomyopathy, caused by trauma and unnatural and severe stress. Paying tribute to Venter and her colleagues, Iiasa chief executive Dr Claudelle von Eck said: “She was shot in the face; had her car brakes tampered with and tyres slashed; her home had been broken into on several occasions; and she was even abducted and tied to a tree while a ring of fire was lit around it. Her case highlighted the lengths to which she and her colleagues were victimised.” Calata, meanwhile, said those behind the campaign against him and his colleagues “targeted the most vulnerable among us”. “Suna was a young, white, single woman who lived alone. I am just astounded by how incredibly brave she was,” he said. Ntuli said their struggle at the SABC must be seen as part of the greater countrywide struggles to de-capture SA’s public institutions. “What we learnt was that good policies require good, ethical leadership to implement them,” she said. “Without that, we end up with the kind of callous stealing of public resources that we see, by people who were not supposed to be in those positions in the first place. “Today, R5billion of public funds remain unaccounted for at the SABC, and the interim board has to make a plan on a month-to-month basis to find enough money to pay the employees,” Ntuli said.