Cashiers Leonie van Wyk, 25, Shameez Powell, 27, Chantay Potts, 19, Zarah Grace, 22, Kelly Brickles, 21, and three female colleagues appeared in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court yesterday. The workers, mostly from the Pelican Park and Grassy Park area, said that last Friday, the store’s management humiliated them in front of co-workers, did not allow them to call their families and threatened them with dismissal or jail for taking the gratuities. Police were called and the workers were escorted from the store in front of customers, as they were charged with theft. They spent a night in holding cells at Grassy Park police station, and were released on the Saturday and told to appear at court. Van Wyk, 25, said they were suspended on Monday and appeared in court on the theft charges. “On Friday, the manager told us there were cameras in the cash office and we were given the choice of accepting immediate dismissal or being arrested. “We refused to accept those conditions, and none of us have been short or over after we cashed up. The amount in total added up to less than R300, almost R50 each, and was only tips we receive from customers who know how little we earn,” said Van Wyk. She said they were humiliated and traumatised from the experience and spending a night in the holding cells with criminals. Their next court appearance would be on September 20, and they would meet with representatives of the South African Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers Union (Saccawu), said Van Wyk. The workers said they earned between R19.40 and R20.40 an hour for a 30-hour work week, making R600 weekly and R2400 monthly. They claimed that the store’s management would often demand that they work overtime but would refuse to pay for it. Instead, they were given only a half-hour lunch break and no tea breaks, and were paid an hour short every week. Shopper Eleanor Hoedemaker said they had protested at the store and the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court because they were disgusted by the actions of the store’s management. “It’s disgusting that they would handcuff them and parade them through the store in front of customers. These young women are from our neighbourhoods, and we know the low wages they earn and their struggle to make it through a month.”