The 51-year-old mother-of-three could not hide her jubilation when The Star visited her at her three-bedroom home in Tsakane, Springs, yesterday.  “Thank you very much, my son, you have helped give my family dignity,” said Shongwe. Earlier this month, The Star ran reports highlighting Shongwe’s plight of having a house in Tsakane Extension 11 since October 1997. She found out about the house only in 2010, when she was declined credit by a financial institution for being blacklisted due to a municipal debt of more than R16 000. The city confirmed earlier this month that Shongwe’s municipal debt currently stood at R24 410, R21153 of which was handed over to debt collectors to be recovered from her as she was “liable” for the debt because the house was registered in her name. However, this all changed last week when Ma Shongwe, as she is known, was granted a new * 
ow-cost house in Tsakane Extension 22 after the Gauteng Department of Human Settlements “resolved” to allocate her a house following “investigations” into her matter. This was according to Ekurhuleni spokesperson Themba Gadebe. Standing in her new home and beaming with pride, Shongwe said it would help lower her blood sugar levels, saying she was a chronic diabetic whose health was suffering due to the housing saga. “What pained me the most was thinking every day: ‘I’m going to succumb to my diabetes; what inheritance will I leave my children and grandchildren?’ “As a mother, I want to rest assured that those coming after me will have a home they can call their own.” Asked whether the City  of Ekurhuleni would write off Shongwe’s more than R20 000 debt, Gadebe said: “It will be the responsibility of the current occupant of the house, as it was accumulated during (their stay) on the property.” Gadebe added that the Extension 11 house would be deregistered in Shongwe’s name, and be registered in the current occupant’s name “in the event he or she qualifies”. Shongwe said she was sceptical whether Ekurhuleni would clear her debt and help clear her blacklisted status, because of the “agony” she had endured. In this regard, she has enlisted the help of Legal Aid SA, which told her that once she receives her title deed, the pro bono legal organisation could approach the courts to help clear her sullied name. This, Shongwe added, would allow her to approach the financial markets and renovate her new home. “I want to erect a wall around the property so I can install a gate that locks for safety. “There are no floor tiles in the new house, and I would like to put them in so my house can be gorgeous,” she enthused. Shongwe added that she held no grudges against the people occupying her old house. “I just want to enjoy the remainder of my life with my family in our new home.” @khayakoko88