The Afro-jazz singer and poet recently released her new single, Lo Tsha, off her second album by the same title. “That is how Venda people greet each other into a new day and that’s what I wanted for my new album to bring something new,” said Mulovhedzi, who’s also a published author. The 31-year-old star grew up in a musical family in Limpopo and she started playing the guitar at age 16. “I’ve always wanted to explore the depths of music and for me jazz had that thing. I love exploring African sounds, I am moved and mesmerised by the nostalgic sounds.” As a creative, Mulovhedzi has always wanted to get to the heart of people. In 2015, she published her first novel - Waiting on Tomorrow - that was about challenging social norms. Her debut album, Mysteries of Love, was also released in 2015 and was a combination of native rhythms with modern Afro-soul sounds in her mother tongue. “With that album I was still finding my sound. Venda music has an African nostalgic sound. Even when I was choosing which language to sing in, it’s always been about the traditional rhythms mixed with contemporary sounds.”  She said it had always been important to tell her story properly and with this new album, that’s what she has managed to do. “When you are on a musical journey, you worry about what you have done. "I’ve released an album now in the fashion I wanted. I was more involved in the production and song writing and my poetry showed through.” Mulovhedzi wants people who buy this album to experience a bit of Africa and remember what the African sound is like. “There’s a story behind the music. It starts with a letter of my birthplace in Mukula. I want people to love the instrumental more than my voice. There’s a nostalgic sound and I tell them who I am through the African folk music that’s also fused into it.” Mulovhedzi said African folk music like the Venda sound had not been captured properly yet. Lo Tsha is the first song to be released from the 12-track Afro-soul album. It will be available on digital platforms from Friday. @mane_mpi