Johannesburg - DA Gauteng Health's shadow Minister Jack Bloom claims he was barred from doing an oversight visit at the Gauteng department of Health's head office. He said he had gone there to check the situation and how employees were coping since their furniture and computers were seized by the sheriff in order to settle a payment of R6.2-million medical negligence payment. Speaking to The Star on Thursday morning, Bloom said he arrived at the premises on Wednesday afternoon. He said he had suspected that the department had something to hide and they were embarrassed as he was made to wait for 40 minutes. Later, he was told that he needed to make an appointment. He also stated that an employee told him they had to hide their laptops when the Sheriff arrived at the office. "I am used to being barred from hospitals, but what do they think they are hiding at the head office? Gauteng Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa claims that operations have not been affected by the lack of furniture and equipment but I suspect the situation is even worse than we think." he said. However, Ramokgopa's spokesperson  Khutso Rabothata said he could not confirm if that was indeed true. "I wouldn't know about it. All I heard yesterday was that he was in our offices, that what the security guards said. I can't confirm if he was barred or not," Rabothata said. A few years ago Bloom was allegedly barred from Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital. His picture was also posted posted on the window of the guard house. At the time, Bloom said it was his right, duty and an essential part of his job as a member of the Gauteng legislature to perform oversight visits in the public interest. “This hospital has been plagued by problems that I have exposed, which is why they want to stop me from visiting.They (the guards) said management didn't like the fact that I visit and take photographs. This is outrageous," he said at the time. The hospital denied barring Bloom, but said he needed to follow proper procedures. Speaking for the hospital at the time, Nkosiyethu Mazibuko said he had not aware of any picture of Bloom being posted and described the claim as “irrelevant”. What was relevant was that even when making unannounced visits, Bloom had to inform the hospital to let it know he was on the premises, Mazibuko said. “No, he has not been barred. When you want to come to the institution it's either as a patient or to visit (a patient). If Mr Bloom wants to come he must make a formal request.” Mazibuko also said people should not go into a hospital and “just snoop around and leave”. The Star