The two leaders were literally a few kilometres apart, with Ramaphosa addressing supporters during a memorial lecture on Oliver Tambo in Tembisa, while Dlamini Zuma addressed a prayer gathering against child and woman abuse in Germiston. Ramaphosa, who called for the ANC not to be handed over to thieves, was with ANC Gauteng provincial secretary Hope Papo; ANC MP and former Ekurhuleni mayor Mondli Gungubele, a fierce critic of President Jacob Zuma; and Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi, among others. Dlamini Zuma was accompanied by ANC Women’s League president Bathabile Dlamini, ANC Youth League secretary-general Njabulo Nzuza and MK Military Veterans Association spokesperson Carl Niehaus. Ekurhuleni is the only region in Gauteng that supports Zuma, through his ally and 
current mayor Mzwandile Masina. Ramaphosa said the region was important as it was the industrial hub and economic engine of the province. He admitted that the ANC was currently at its lowest ebb, due to factionalism, corruption and tardy policy implementation. He said the ANC needed to get into top gear and implement party decisions in government after the ANC elective conference in December, where Zuma is expected to step down as party leader. Ramaphosa lashed out against state capture by Zuma’s controversial friends the Guptas, saying corruption had become entrenched in the public sector and the country generally. “This is where state capture has been happening with debilitating effects and where resources have been misplaced, looted and stolen. This is where money has been disappearing. “We are saying we want our money back. Money that has been given out without good reason must be brought back,” he said to loud applause. The ANC should not claim victory when poverty, inequality and unemployment were still embedded in society, the deputy president added. Ramaphosa called for radical economic transformation to address the problem. Dlamini Zuma, however, insisted that radical economic transformation would be instrumental in levelling the economic playing field. “The ANC said the land must be returned to the people; the Freedom Charter states that the land must be returned to those who live on it. “We need land, not just for our people but for women as well, because we have the responsibilities of taking care of families, and it isn’t easy,” she said. “When we talk about transformation, we are saying that everybody has the right to be in these spaces, and women should be at the forefront.” In Tembisa, Ramaphosa chastised comrades who were using the ANC as a vehicle for self-enrichment and said ANC members needed to reclaim the governing party from such people. “We need to have comrades who are not going to serve any other interests but the interests of the movement. We need comrades who won’t serve the interests of their families,” he said, calling for the renewal of the organisation. “Let’s take the ANC to where it belongs and make sure the ANC emerges as the best organisation the country has ever seen. “Our people are not fools; they want a strong, decisive and powerful ANC that will take clear decisions,” he said. He also spoke of the need to unite the party leadership. “The factions must end.”