The campaign has been running all through August in commemoration of Women’s Month. According to Benny Obayi, national executive director of CWSA, the organisation consists of nine national offices and there are 164 organisations affiliated to it. The aim of this campaign was to mobilise and empower the girl-child to be bold and stand up in a male-dominated world, he said. “Society has put limitations on the female. They are told that they cannot achieve their dreams because they are limited in their thinking. Sadly, gender inequality is a reality that women encounter on a regular basis.” Obayi said the organisation had compiled a series of "strife and success" videos on its website, which would later be converted into a book to be circulated at schools to educate and equip the young child. Some of the issues are those of self-image, entrepreneurial skills, spirituality and "all issues faced by women at large". “I get sad hearing the struggles of my female relatives, purely because of their gender. "I want to empower my daughter to know she cannot be limited by anything. More so, for her not to find a man to look after her, but to be strong enough to find a man she actually loves,” he said. Obayi said he was pleased by the reception of the programme by both the "senders and receivers". “The people telling their stories often give us feedback, telling us they somewhat feel free by telling their stories, and the listeners often feel encouraged by hearing situations that are 'worse' than theirs, it gives them hope,” he added.   In a statement issued by Obayi, the World Economic Forum predicted that the gender gap between men and women would close entirely only in 2186. This meant women would continue to be subjected to various forms of discrimination and inequality. There was a need for renewed and determined action to shorten this time and make a positive change in the lives of women worldwide, starting with the girl-child, it said. At 94, CWSA is the largest child protection non-profit organisation in South Africa, and leads in the achievement of a safe and caring environment for all children. But it recently experienced financial challenges, which affected its operations. However, it is determined that its doors will not close and has embarked on major fund-raising initiatives. To help CWSA meet its operational needs and its objectives, the Sibaya Community Trust - a catalyst for social upliftment and development - gave it a R1 million cash injection. Vivian Reddy, chairman of Sibaya Casino, said they were excited to be of help and assist CWSA overcome its challenges. CWSA, for their part, expressed their gratitude to the trust, saying such donations help them intensify their efforts in ensuring a safe and caring environment for all children in South Africa. CWSA comprises 164 member organisations in all nine provinces. These organisations work to address the needs of children in over 205 communities. Collectively, the organisations reaches about 2 million children and their families annually. Follow Child Welfare on their Facebook and Twitter pages. Share your stories using  #beboldtellyourstory :  https://www.facebook.com/childwelfaresa/   https://twitter.com/childwelfare_sa  