And, in what is believed to be the first in South Africa, stormwater collected from the waterfall in The Wilds, which, in turn, comes from the Bellevue/Observatory areas, and running underground for more than 80 years under concrete, has been turned into a “river” in the precinct to create a pond called the Celebration Pond. This then becomes a stream running underground again though Norwood and Orchards joining a stream on the Houghton Golf course and eventually ending up in the Sandspruit River. The water has been ‘sun-lighted’ for the first time in years and the City of Joburg, because of the new Louis Botha Avenue Rea Vaya and corridor of freedom, set aside funds to create the walk-way from Louis Botha Avenue through to the Paterson Park Recreation Centre which is being upgraded. The walkway is also a short-cut through the park to Norwood on the pathway through the park, said architect Maria Lasersohn who has also been involved in many town planning issues. The opening up the “river” will also prevent flooding. It means that flooding water can spill into the parkland, at the same time irrigate the surrounding parkland instead of shooting through at great speed through the channelised  concrete pipes, she said. The previous council, about 80 years ago, decided to contain the stormwater in concrete pipes, underground. “Now it has been opened for the first time. Officially it is not a river, but the water is now following its natural course,” she said. Twelve years ago, the Paterson Park Recreation Centre started declining due to dwindling numbers and a gym, which too over the park, going bankrupt. Since then, the parks and some of its precincts have slowly slid into decline. Now, because of the construction of the Rea Vaya and plans to build multi-storey the area is set to be revitalise. A children's playground and outdoor gym equipment has already been instated along the pathway. “It is already looking beautiful. People can enjoy a walk through the park area while walking. The city has created a whole new area which is welcomed because there will be many more people in the precinct with the imminent building of high-rise housing in the Paterson precinct,” she said. The pool in the park has been filled in and made part of the park. The new recreation centre will offer residents many facilities. The old bowling club premises, which are standing empty, will probably converted into a restaurant. “All round, it is a very good development for the whole area. The Pikitup depot building which are in the precinct and have been standing empty for years, are to be converted into mixed-use development.  @annacox 