The winter warmer campaign was launched on May 13, 2010.  The recipients have been targeted through weekly distributions over the three months of the campaign, June to August, when it’s most cold in the country, and has gone from strength to strength each year, attracting new CSI partners, like the Shoprite/Checkers Group, who have contributed in excess of 17400 blankets and 7000 food parcels to the campaign. Support for the campaign has also come from the Foschini Group that donated 40000 blankets, valued at R6 million, many of which have already been distributed. During the Mandela Day initiatives on July 18, The Star and Gift of the Givers donated 500 food parcels and blankets to shelters and orphanages in the Johannesburg CBD. Other corporate sponsors included, Tiger Brands and Vodacom donating 200 food parcels towards the winter warmer campaign. Needy NPOs based in township communities have also been identified, and aided during the winter warmth campaign. Gift of the Givers have continued their services in the Western Cape to provide relief for victims of the Knysna fire. Their Mandela Day projects have seen them contribute 50000 hampers in various provinces in the country. This year, the foundation celebrates 25 years of social responsibility.  Imthiaz Suliman, chief executive of the Gift of the Givers Foundation, said their 25th anniversary was a period of introspection and prayer. “We are thankful for the growth and support we’ve received, that motivates us to aspire to greater heights,” he said. The Gift of the Givers Foundation is the largest disaster relief organisation of African origin in Africa. They have delivered over R2.1bn in aid to 43 countries around the world, including South Africa. The foundation also designed and developed the world’s first and largest containerised mobile hospital, which was deployed in Bosnia. Their relief projects cover health, education, agricultural sustainability, life skills, job creation, entrepreneurship, feeding schemes, sport and culture, including the winter warmth campaign.