Ambition has allowed 28-year-old Refilwe Mogorosi to stand out from the crowd. 
On Tuesday night she was the recipient of the Young Internal Auditor of the Year at the annual Institute of Internal Auditors South Africa (IIA SA) gala dinner. 
An internal auditor at First Rand, Mogorosi has been working for the company since 2013. 
“I am extremely excited about the award. It's such an honour to have already been nominated but to get the award means somewhere somehow I am doing something right in this profession.”
Mogorosi is a University of Johannesburg (UJ) graduate and said it had always been part of the plan to become a great auditor. 
“When I started the idea was to always be a pioneer in the industry and profession and a leader as well. I’ve always been a numbers and accounting girl,” she said. 
She started out at UJ going the CA route but by second year she decided to change to auditing.
“I wanted to be an auditor with some spunk and personality so I chose internal auditing and graduated then started at First Rand. It’s not numbers or accounting or balancing books. What’s amazing about internal auditing is that you interact with everybody from a graduate who has just started working to a CEO or senior official and you need to be able to hold your own and to stick to your guns, always refer back to policy and fact.”
Mogorosi said she felt blessed to be in an environment like First Rand where people are given the platform to study further and to have mentors to help guide their careers. “I’m also part of a social committee and bringing some spunk to the department there. It’s really an amazing space. 
She said the industry could always do with more black females in higher positions. 
“I think with entry level there is a lot of black females but as we are climbing the ladder the doors need to be kept open.”
Mogorosi said auditing shouldn’t scare people who are interested in pursuing it as a career.  
“If you are interested in making things better, do it. It doesn’t have to necessarily be in the forefront of business but even being a trusted advisor. If that’s your thing do it and be fearless and courageous when you do it.” 
The evening was hosted by comedian Lihle Msimang and Lira performed for the audience. POWERFUL IN PINK: Songstress Lira gave a stellar performance at the IIA SA gala dinner. Picture: Supplied.  The gala dinner formed part of the 20th Annual Southern African Internal Audit Conference which ended on Wednesday. 
A special presentation was given for the IIA SA’s Guardian of Governance Award which was awarded to the SABC 8- Busisiwe Ntuli, Lukhanyo Calata, Thandeka Gqubule, Foeta Krige, Krivani Pillay, Jacques Steenkamp, Vuyo Mvoko, now a senior news anchor with eNCA, and the late Suna Venter. Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela was the recipient of the award last year. 
“Today is six weeks since we bid farewell to our comrade Suna Venter so it’s also with a  heavy heart that we receive this recognition but we know that where she is Suna is proud of her legacy which will never be erased for many years to come,” said Ntuli, who spoke on behalf of the group.