DURBAN - Details have emerged surrounding a fist fight between two groups of golfers that broke out at Durban's Athlone Golf Club which was captured on video.
The video which has been circulated on social media shows two groups of men punching and kicking each other after a verbal spat. The woman, who filmed the incident, said the fight in the video occurred when a club official asked for the men’s names. The same group of men had allegedly sworn at a team of women earlier in the day. Speaking to the Daily News, one of the members of the Pink Ladies Golf School said a group of eight ladies had arrived at the club on August 5 to find that their booking times were not allocated. The woman asked not to be named due to threats being made via social media. “This is despite us booking our time. The booking was made by the Durban Country Club captain who also booked a cart,” she explained. WARNING: Graphic language  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. She said the group was asked to play off the 10th tee and on the turn, they would be advised thereafter. The ladies then split into two teams of eight. “Halfway through, we were asked if we would not mind playing the same 9 holes again and we obliged. We made our way to the tee box. I was already of the 12th hole when I received a call from one of the ladies who said the group had been assaulted and verbally harassed by a group of  men. The men told them to go back and cook in the kitchen. I advised her to continue with the game and ignore the incident,” she said. She said when they had finished their round, the group made their way to the upper deck to total their scores and wait for their members. “The caddy came up to me and told me about the incident between the group of men and our ladies. Moments later, we heard a verbal altercation below where we were. I then videoed the incident. The club’s vice-captain had requested the names of the men who had harassed our team. The ladies who were harassed by these men were not aware of this fight as they were still playing. I contacted a security company that sent two cars to escort us off the premises,” the female golfer said. She said when the group of female golfers were leaving, they noticed the same group of male golfers braaing in the parking lot. “They saw us and began swearing at us. I told my group to gather their belongings and leave. As a group of lady golfers, all from different clubs, who meet once a month at various courses. In the 13 years of running the Pink Ladies Golf School, I have never been exposed nor been a part of this kind of behaviour. The aggressive, sexist and racist comments made by the men are completely unacceptable and goes against every form of etiquette this fine game demands,” she said. Lou Zietsman of the Athlone Golf Club said they will not be taking action against the group of men. “This is a public course but we will be taking statements from our members involved in the incident,” he said. Daily News