Dlabantu (the one who eats people) is the name the locals have given to a man who stepped into Estcourt police station, produced part of a human leg and a hand, and declared he was tired of eating human flesh. “We must stop walking around at night because some people see us as walking meat,” said a young man outside a tavern. After changing out of his school uniform and eating what his maternal grandmother Winnie Magubane had prepared for him, Simthembile, seemingly oblivious to the whispers of cannibals, started the five-minute walk to his paternal grandmother Ntombifuthi Sithole’s house. He is carefree and smiles at strangers, though his grandmothers have not stopped crying since the suspected cannibals were arrested. One, who is expected to apply for bail on Monday, Lungisani Magubane, is Simthembile’s maternal uncle. He and four others, including one man arrested on Wednesday, are also believed to have dug up the grave of Mongezi Mkhize, Simthembile’s dad, to allegedly grind up his bones for use in muti. “(The Magubane family) know my heartache. Mongezi was shot by his own brother. He would have been resting in the grave for six years on December 23. I wanted to forget, now I don’t even know where his bones are,” said a weeping Sithole. On the other side of the highway, an also tearful gogo Magubane said: “Lungisani was a good boy who never got into trouble. His twin Mlungiseni is the more outspoken.” Lungisani, 30, had brought Nino Mbatha, 32, the man who confessed to police, to their home in June. He asked his brother Philani to let Mbatha stay in a room on his rental property, a stone’s throw from the Magubane household. “I told him to tell the man to come back the next day, but when we woke in the morning, we found the man had slept in Lungisani’s room.” Philani chastised his brother for letting an inyanga (traditional healer) sleep over and was forced to accommodate him at the rental property. He paid rent only once, and when Philani went to ask for the R300 monthly rental, Mbatha said Philani was the one who must pay him. “I was so angry but kept my cool. We had already started hearing about his use of muti,” Philani said. Lungisani and his friends, some of whom were also arrested, never left Mbatha’s side. Philani learnt later this was because he promised them riches and claimed to be the son of former Nquthu mayor and renowned traditional healer, Sosobala Mbatha. “We are traditional people, so we believe in rituals, but the things this guy was saying and doing were unheard of,” Philani said. “How could this man, who did not even have a place to stay, make them rich?” he asked. Gogo Magubane said she couldn’t fathom why her son would get involved in such matters. “I felt uneasy about this man from the time he came to my house. Lungisani changed after that.” She said that when his three-year-old daughter was naughty, he would threaten to use her body parts for muti. His alleged involvement in the cannibalism and the fact that Mbatha lived in their rental property had alienated the family from their neighbours. They are afraid that if Lungisani is granted bail and comes home, the people they have lived with for generations will turn on the family. “We talk about him as if he is dead. I am hurt, not angry at him, because I know he would never do such a thing if he was himself,” she said. The mud house in which the men allegedly cooked and ate human flesh is locked up. On the other side of the highway, Mkhize’s grave lies empty and open. Six years ago, when Sithole buried her son, she took comfort in knowing Simthembile’s dad was resting in peace in the cemetery at the foot of a hill marking the end of eSigodlweni. The highway continues beyond the hill, eventually reaching Ladysmith, where Lungisani and his co-accused are believed to be held. So far, gogo Magubane has been too afraid to cross the highway to face gogo Sithole. * Not his real name