“It came about in 2007 when I was feeling like a star, something that was beyond a queen,” said the 29-year-old. Zibulwana is a multi-genre artist who fell in love with hip hop at an early age. “Music is something I’ve always been passionate about. Though I’m in corporate now, music has always been the only thing that really makes me happy. I can work with no sleep and not feel it when I’m doing what I love,” she said. The songwriter spends countless nights coming up with lyrics that she can use for her music. She also has an Afro-soul background. “I started in Afro-soul because the opportunity presented itself to me through a friend who wanted vocals over his keyboard. I would write music as well and we worked on an album.” The album, Bavuyile, was never released. She has shared the stage with the likes of the Jaziel Brothers and has performed alongside popular names such as R&B Soul star Donald and rapper Gigi Lamayne. “I’m such a hip-hop fanatic. When the album project didn’t work out, I wasn’t as passionate about Afro-soul music. So when I went solo I focused on hip hop, a genre I really love. I’m also a poet, so it came naturally,” she said. The Alexandra-born singer is one of the few women to have entered their songs on the KFC Soundbite platform. Artists have to register on the website and upload their tracks on the SoundBite platform. Music fans can access the platform and listen to 30-second SoundBites of their favourite tracks and have the power to control the charts through likes, shares and downloads to move the songs up and down the chart. The chart has 550 local tracks and each week 50 newcomers are loaded. Her song, #1 (NUMBER 1), is all about winning. Earlier this year, she won R10000 in a rap competition. “It’s an inspiring song. It’s about running your own race and doing your own thing without comparing yourself to anyone, and focusing on your goals.” She said she wanted people - both young and old - to relate to the song. “My mom gave it a listen and liked the track, so I hope people can relate to it. It’s in my own lingo and style for everyone to enjoy.” Zibulwana is working on her new six-track EP, set to be released next month, and is also preparing for a performance at the State Theatre for a hip-hop session. “The EP is me introducing myself to the public and presenting different flavours of my music and also giving people a little more of what I have to offer. I’ve noticed that a variety of people like the music I’ve been putting out on social media and I want to cater to as many as I can with the music.” @mane_mpi