DURBAN - SENZO Meyiwa’s incomplete dream home in the south of Durban could soon be demolished. The traditional authority in Adams Mission has warned that the slain Bafana Bafana goalkeeper’s ownership rights could be revoked by chief KS Makhanya, if his family fails further to consult with them. Meyiwa’s family has never met with the traditional chief since his death in 2014, 1 000 days ago this week. Mystery still surrounds the murder of the former Orlando Pirates captain in October 2014 by unknown gunmen at his girlfriend Kelly Khumalo’s house in Vosloorus, Gauteng. Almost three years on, his killers are still at large. Meyiwa, Khumalo and her two children, her mother Ntombi, her sister Zandile, Chicco Twala’s son Longwe, Mthokozisi Twala and Meyiwa’s friend from Durban, Tumelo Madlala, were all reportedly in the house when the fatal gunshots were fired. A R250 000 reward promised by the police in 2014 has done little to crack the case. On Wednesday, when the Sunday Tribune team visited what would have been Meyiwa’s massive five-bedroom retirement home in the lush green hills, the incomplete building was covered by overgrown shrubs and bush. The massive five bedroom house Senzo Meyiwa and wife, Mandisa Mkhize, were building in Adams Mission, south of Durban. Picture: Gcina Ndwalane/ANA Pictures WATCH: The local headman explains why the Meyiwa's could lose the house To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Video: Ntozinhle Sinqobile/Independent Media The local induna, Mbongeni Makhanya, said if the property remained neglected as it has been for the past three years, the traditional authority would repossess it and knock down the walls. Meyiwa started building in 2013, and at the time of his death, the roof was still to be erected. A neighbour, who sold the plot of land to the slain goalkeeper and his wife, Mandisa Mkhize, said the price of the land in 2012 was R30 000. Meyiwa was known to make regular visits when construction began, locals said. Makhanya urged Senzo’s father, Sam Meyiwa, to approach the chief, to explain the family’s future plans for the house. “They need to come to our traditional court and change the ownership of the house. Failure to do that could result in the Meyiwas losing ownership of the site. “We need to know what is holding them up in completing the building of the house. We can also advise them to sell the house so that they could benefit from its sale,” he said. “If time passes with no word from the family, we will eventually demolish the walls and return the land to the chief because the land belongs to him. “They should use the opportunity to come forward. It has been three years since construction work began.” Makhanya said that they too were at a loss after Meyiwa’s death because he would have encouraged other professionals to become residents of the area, and that the area has drawn township dwellers to build homes there. When Meyiwa’s father was contacted this week, he said he was unaware he was expected to approach the traditional authority. “I will visit the chief this week to tell him about our wish to continue with the building.” He said a lack of funds had stopped the family from completing the project. “We were hoping that Senzo’s money from his estate would be paid to us so that we can continue with the building. At this stage, we are broke. We are struggling to look after his three children,” he said. Two of Meyiwa’s other children from Mandisa Mkhize and Khumalo, live with their respective mothers. Also read: Kelly shares Senzo's last days with fans In April, the then newly appointed Police Minister Fikile Mbalula promised that he would prioritise Meyiwa’s case. There have been no public pronouncements from the minister since. Also read: Meyiwa family pin hopes on Mbalula in three year murder case “I did contact Mbalula last month, he promised to get back to us but I am yet to get feedback on the matter. However, I am quite aware that he is a busy person, cracking this case demands his dedication. “I cannot say I am disappointed with him at this stage, I just need to give him more time to investigate,” Meyiwa said. Mbalula’s spokesperson, Esethu Hasane, said his office could not comment on the case because it was still under investigation. Meanwhile, Gogo Zungu, who sold the plot of land five years ago, recalled how she was excited when Meyiwa and his wife Mandisa arrived to purchase the site. “Meyiwa was very kind, he treated me like I was his mother. Every time he visited, he stopped by my house and gave me money by the hundreds. It was a very kind gesture from him.” The frail woman, now in her 70s, said the former Bafana Bafana goalkeeper would sometimes buy groceries for her family. Another neighbour, Samkelo Cele, shared the “good times” they had when Meyiwa visited the site. He said Meyiwa was a people’s person. “He brought beers to share with amagents (the gents) and the construction workers. His aim was to settle down with his wife and kids once his playing days were over. “But he also wanted to occasionally sleep over at his place when he was in Durban for soccer matches and during the festive holidays,” said Cele. He said hearing of Meyiwa’s death was painful. “He was not a violent person.  We still need closure on his death but it seems like the police are reluctant to do their job,” he said. Cele said the community was also concerned that the house could be used by drug addicts if it was left neglected. Meyiwa said he planned to have a mass prayer at the family house in uMlazi in October to pray for his son’s killers to be arrested. National police spokesperson  Vish Naidoo said:  “The investigation into Meyiwa’s death is continuing and there have been no new developments. “We urge anyone, who has information that could assist us in this investigation, to please come forward.” Also read: He loves me, even in his grave Follow the Sunday Tribune on Facebook Follow the Sunday Tribune on Twitter  SUNDAY TRIBUNE