Cape Town - A terrifying new crime trend is developing in Cape Town after a third couple came forward to say that a man tried to kidnap their child by smashing their car window at a notorious intersection. The young Mitchells Plain couple, who asked not to be named, say a man tried to kidnap their three-year-old daughter on Monday at 4:30pm This comes just weeks after two other couples shared their horror stories of attempted kidnappings along Jakes Gerwel Drive. The father, 32, explains: “I was on the N2 and my wife and my daughter along with our friend and her two children were sitting at the back. There was nobody in front." “We were on our way to the airport to collect our friend’s husband. We took the Borcherd’s Quarry Road exit in Nyanga to go under the bridge.” Read: Man breaks car's window, tries to snatch girl from dad     
          Another smash-and-snatch attempt foiled While waiting at the robots, a man smashed the passenger window. The mother, who was holding her daughter, says: “He just grabbed her by the chest.” “I didn’t see a brick or anything, I just hit his hand down into the window where the broken glass was. She was screaming and I shouted: ‘I am going to f***ing kill you’.” She continued to slam his arm into the broken glass until he let go of her daughter. “It was confusing because the two children next to me had a tablet and a cellphone but he came towards me and went for my daughter. He grabbed her by the chest, he wanted her,” says the mom. The father says he sped home where the family contacted police. Officers from Mitchells Plain Police Station arrived shortly thereafter but the family says they were further traumatised when officers told them they could not report their case in Mitchells Plain and had to go to Nyanga. However, police spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel André Traut, says a criminal case can be reported at any police station convenient for the complainant. Asked about the incident location, Traut says the area has been prioritised and additional resources are deployed during morning and afternoon rush hours to prevent incidents of smash and grabs. Daily Voice