Angolan R&B star Anselmo Ralph, traditional music star Oumou Sangare from Mali, and Nigerian pop-star Wizkid lead the pack of nominated talents.  Ralph and Sangare are nominated for six awards while Wizkid leads with seven.  The full nominees’ list of 33 categories also includes the Regional Category which covers the five African regions and the genre-based Continental Category. Angola’s electro music diva Nsoki and Tanzania’s R&B musician Ali Kiba both have five nominations.  Nigerian pop artists Davido, Runtown and Seyi Shay, as well as Moroccan-American star French Montana, Cameroon’s Daphne and Uganda’s Eddy Kenzo have each earned four nominations.  From South Africa, house band Micasa, iconic trumpeter Hugh Masekela, jazz genius Nduduzo Makhathini and rapper AKA each bagged three nominations. Home-grown talent also dominates the Best Male and Female in Southern Africa categories. Amanda Black has been nominated for her hit song AmaZulu. She’s up against Babes Wodumo for her song Family, house lady Busisiwe for Ingqondo, Lebo Sekgobela for Lion of Judah and last but not least, Thandiswa Mazwai for Nontsokolo. The male category sees AKA face off against rappers Emtee and Nasty C as well as Masekela and Makhathini. Closing off the category is Malawi’s Tay Grin and Zimbabwe’s Jah Prayzah. Afrima brand communication director Matlou Tsotetsi said the awards are designed to promote African music with distinct roots, worldwide. “We see this as an opportunity to use the music as an export product to the rest of the world, so our vision is to be the ultimate recognition of African music globally.” Public voting opened this week for fans to vote for their favourites. The official ceremony will be held in November and will include two-day pre-events from November 10 to 12. These include the Africa Music business round-table at which representatives of music brands discuss how the industry can create jobs and add to the GDP of the continent. The last three editions of the awards have taken place in Lagos, Nigeria. Another go-to event will be the Afrima Music Village - an open music festival of live performances from the nominees. The main awards ceremony will take place on November 12. The Afrima awards are presented in partnership with the African Union Commission.