Fashionistas: your home can now be as stylish as you are. Local fashion design veteran Gavin Rajah has launched a homeware collection which he promises will make you feel as glamorous as his clothes do. The limited edition range will be in @Home homeware stores by mid November for the festive season. The collection is already available for pre-order online, and The Star had a sneak peek last week. Rajah’s collaboration with @Home has produced a high-end range which features intricate embroidery on a neutral palette. Those who purchase the duvets, pillowcases, throw cushions and other items, will experience sleeping in lush material decorated in the finest detail. The range is inspired by cultures around the world, including those of the Ndebele, Europe and the Middle East. The designer told The Star at the launch that when he started designing it, he followed the same protocol as he does with his fashion ranges. “I approached my homeware collection the same way I approached fashion design,” he said. Homage to Mahotella Queen Hilda “I used the same attention to detail, and the fabrics and materials I used are of the highest quality.”  Rajah explained that although homeware design was somewhat of a new venture to him, he felt as if he was in familiar territory as he thrives on his creativity in all aspects of design.  “It’s not much different from fashion design at all, but what is different is the environment and the usage of the homeware items I designed.” He added that the home range was also similar to the clothes he makes because they both come in contact with the skin, and he stressed that both ranges needed to be beautiful. Rajah said that he used to make homeware items at his studio for a select clientele. The retailer @Home then found out about it and approached him to collaborate with them on a unique collection. “Something like this has never been done before,” said Rajah.  He said that he started working on the range from March this year and was closely involved in the entire process, from sourcing the fabric to the design element, working with the suppliers as well as distribution. “It’s a long process when you are producing such volumes and working with such a massive retailer, because the distribution is countrywide and there are so many things to factor in.” Although his personalised homeware range is now available to a bigger market, Rajah stressed that it was still not meant for mass consumption and that only a select number of items would be available in stores countrywide. “The range is accessible but I still want there to be an element of exclusivity,” he said. “When you have things everybody has, it doesn’t feel as special.” Rajah added that he was delighted the items would be available in stores by Christmas and that they were the perfect example of luxurious gifting. While the first range will be hitting stores in the coming months, Rajah already has plans to design and release an exciting new range next year.  @Karishma_Dipa   The Star 