This included Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa, who said he was saddened by his death, as well as Gauteng Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation MEC Faith Mazibuko, who described the star as a larger-than-life musician. The Fatty Boom Boom hitmaker lost his life on Tuesday night in a Vosloorus hospital after a long battle with diabetes. He had reportedly been suffering from the disease for years. The plus-size musician was vocal about his battle with diabetes, which impairs the body’s ability to produce or respond to the hormone insulin, resulting in the abnormal metabolism of carbohydrates and elevated levels of glucose in the blood. As the disease restricted the flow of blood to his feet and legs, doctors had warned him that they might have to amputate his leg. But he told the media last year that he would rather die than have his limb amputated. In a desperate bid for help, he turned to Incredible Happenings Church leader Paseka “Mboro” Motsoeneng to pray for divine intervention. “After watching people on television saying they were healed by him, I decided to come to him for help. “He is my last hope,” he told the Sunday World at the time. Despite prayers for his ailing health, the beloved musician succumbed to the disease, which made his last years difficult. Although he was often in the spotlight because of his weight and his battle with diabetes, his impressive music career spanned two decades. Other songs he was acclaimed for includes Fattis & Monis featuring Ntokozo Masinga, Groove and Khekhe. While #riptsekeleke was trending for most of yesterday, Mthethwa tweeted: “We send our sincere condolences to the family and friends of a sensational avant-garde of kwaito, Tsekeleke, who has sadly passed on.” @GrootmanTebza posted on Twitter: “Tsekeleke has passed away. Life had been so difficult for him in the past 10 years at least. May he finally rest #RIPTsekeleke.” Meanwhile, many believed that he would have been alive if he had looked after his health. This included @Abnnerds who tweeted: “Tsekeleke should’ve lost weight, he’d still be with us if we’re being honest.” In her statement, Mazibuko expressed her condolences to the musician’s loved ones. “We mourn the death of this fallen star with his family, friends and colleagues in the music industry,” the MEC said yesterday.