Hundreds of people were gathered at the spot where hours earlier a minibus taxi - packed full of churchgoers on their way to the Sunday morning service - careered off a bridge and plunged 15 metres down an embankment. By late afternoon, the death toll from the horror crash was sitting at 19. The accident took place on the main road in the Msunduzi Valley area around 9.30am. The Department of Community Safety and Liaison in KwaZulu-Natal posted on its Facebook page that the driver of the minibus had lost control of the vehicle and it rolled several times. “As per the disc, the vehicle is certified to carry 16 passengers. However, it was ferrying 26 people, including the driver,” the department said. “The minibus was overloaded by 10 people.” MEC Mxolisi Kaunda visited the scene yesterday. He said his department was compiling a report, but that initial investigations indicated that the minibus’s brakes were not in good condition. Kaunda said most of those who had died were women. The SAPS Search and Rescue Unit, state paramedics and private ambulance services were all at the scene. ER24’s Russel Meiring said they found the minibus lying on its roof at the bottom of the embankment. “A total of 15 bodies were found lying around the vehicle. Paramedics assessed the patients and found that all 15 had already succumbed to their multiple injuries,” Meiring said. Members of the community had rushed a number of the survivors to the local clinic immediately after the accident. Meiring said they treated several patients at the scene and at the clinic. Five had sustained critical injuries. “Unfortunately, after a time, three succumbed to their injuries and were declared dead,” Meiring said. Later in the day, another person died. Robert McKenzie, spokesperson for KZN Emergency Medical Services, said they had treated a total of 12 patients with critical and serious injuries. SAPS spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said police were investigating. The ANC in KZN labelled the crash a “sad and painful tragedy”,  adding that the suggestion that the minibus was overloaded was “concerning”. “The ANC further calls on law enforcement and other authorities to swiftly investigate the causes of this carnage and to act decisively on any act of negligence or recklessness. “The ANC also calls on all taxi operators to be more vigilant and adhere to the rules of the road and take safety precautions seriously to avoid the unnecessary loss of life,” the party said. “Our public transport vehicles cannot be turned into moving coffins. Passengers should also be vigilant of any wrongdoing and must not allow their lives to be endangered by being coerced into boarding overloaded taxis.” The DA in KZN said it was “deeply saddened” and offered its condolences to the families and friends of those who had died. “We urge all motorists to please be safe and vigilant on our roads. It’s heartbreaking that we lose so many lives on our roads, yet urgent action is never taken to prevent crashes from taking place this frequently,” the party said. In April, 19 children and the driver died when a minibus taxi collided with a truck at Bronkhorstspruit in Gauteng.