The Star is planning to host a lunch on Thursday in celebration of female icons and to pave the way for women of the future. A dynamic programme has been put together to celebrate the beauty, magic and strength in every woman, making it a day for women to be captivated and inspired and to reflect on moments of joy throughout their lives. The guest speakers also include Sam Wright, Lesoko Seabe and Bev Hancock. Technology Today: Sam Wright will explore all things tech at the luncheon.  Wright is a South African blogger who loves gadgets, technology and e-sport. Tech Girl is a South African tech blog for women, where she shares her love for gadgets and gaming. Seabe is a sought-after theatre actress, accomplished voice-over artist and master of ceremonies. She also runs numerous television, radio and corporate campaigns. ARTS QUEEN: Lesoko Seabe is invested in the rights of fellow artists.  Hancock is managing director of the Kamva Leadership Institute and champions Unique Speaker Bureau’s Intervention. Lebyane is a multi-levelled media personality with cross- cultural experience. The 40-year-old is the host of e.tv's morning show Sunrise  and former host of SABC2’s women talk show Motswako. She’s passionate about WO+MAN and building great communities. BUSINESS BOSS: Bev Hancock helps women master entrepreneurship.  Lebyane works closely with various NGOs, educational institutions and corporates on issues of women development, health, education, self-actualisation and community development. Lebyane said NGOs such as the SA Anxiety and Depression Group and Caring4Girls were close to her heart. She summited Mt Kilimanjaro with the Trek4Mandela 2015 expedition, which helped  her mentor young people, she said. “I speak out on a lot of issues around women in the media and about my own personal experience. “I personally did not have anybody mentor me in my career. I was part of a generation who had to find their own way in doing things,” she added. “Mentorship is crucial because you get the opportunity to speak to someone who has travelled a similar road and helps you navigate the challenges. WISE WORDS: Penny Lebyane will be giving lessons in the journey of womanhood.  “The journey of womanhood is very challenging, especially if you are working in the media space. “There are so many things you know nothing about and that you encounter for the first time,” she said. Of her 20-year career as a media personality she said: “Mentorship helps women to navigate difficult situations.” Lebyane interacts with women across all fields, be it in politics or business because it relates to her journey as a woman in the media. As one of the key speakers at the event, she plans to discuss the topic “I am, because they were”. “I look at those who came before me and the foundations  they set. “I try to ensure that I build on what they have done, so that I don’t let the next generation down. “It’s about a continuation of women from different generations breaking down boundaries and walls that are created to hold them back.” Join Lebyane, The Star and other prominent women to celebrate women and their development. The event will be hosted at the Houghton Golf Club, R350 a ticket which includes a gift bag, lunch, welcome drinks and pamper session. The Star covers the heart of the nation with unequalled reporting of local, national and international news. It targets readers in Greater Johannesburg - South Africa’s major economic hub. @Zwane_2li2ls