These words are attributed to Honoré de Balzac, a French novelist and playwright, two centuries ago to show just how merciful women can be - regardless of how much they are wronged by society. This level of forgiveness is epitomised by Siphiwe Shongwe, or Ma Shongwe, as she’s affectionately known, an Ekurhuleni woman who was forced to live in a shack for roughly 20 years, despite owning an RDP house in Tsakane Extension 11. Worse for Ma Shongwe, she said, was that she didn’t even know she owned the house. The Star has been publishing a series of reports on the struggles Shongwe said she has experienced since 2010, when she found out she owned a house. And this she found out only after being told by a financial institution that she had been blacklisted for owing over R16000 in municipal debt for a house she had never set foot in. According to the City of Ekurhuleni, this debt now stands at R24410.  The 51-year-old’s ordeal, however, seems to be coming to an end, as she was recently given a new low-cost house in Tsakane Extension 22 by the Gauteng Department of Human Settlements. According to Ekurhuleni spokesperson Themba Gadebe, the municipal debt that Shongwe has been saddled with, as she was “liable for it” because the house was registered in her name, will be transferred to the current occupants of the house, as the debt was accumulated during their stay on the property. Despite all the challenges that the mother-of-three endured because of this housing saga, Ma Shongwe said she had forgiven the municipality and did not resent the occupants of her house in Tsakane Extension 11. “I also believe that, like me, the occupants of my old house don’t have another home that they can go to if they were to be removed from the house,” she said. “I’m a person who empathises with other people, because I would also like people to empathise with me. They did not intentionally defraud me in this matter. They told me before that the house was sold to them by the councillor, Morris Chauke.” Chauke is the chairperson of the council’s ethics and integrity committee and was previously a ward councillor in Tsakane.  But Phillip de Lange, the leader of the DA caucus in Ekurhuleni, was adamant that his party was not prepared to let Chauke and “other housing fraudsters” in the city off the hook, saying the fraudulent sale of RDP houses in Ekurhuleni was rife. “The DA is calling for a judicial commission of inquiry into the level of fraud around the buying and selling of low-cost houses. “But we understand that might take a while, if it happens at all. So we call on others, like Ma Shongwe, to come forward and expose the corruption in Ekurhuleni housing. We are also going to work hard to expose this corruption,” De Lange vowed. “I also cannot believe how a man like Chauke could be made the chairperson of the ethics and integrity committee. It’s laughable He (Chauke) has been a law unto himself in Tsakane.” But Gadebe, on behalf of Ekurhuleni, rubbished the damning allegations made against Chauke, saying they were baseless. “The allegations concerning councillor Chauke are not true. There is a history in this matter that dates back to 1995, which led to the councillor being arrested three times. The case against him was withdrawn on all three occasions,” Gadebe added. @khayakoko88