These unlawful goods were unearthed in a raid led by the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI) - or Hawks - together with the SAPS, in a bust at a house on a hidden plot 15km outside Springs. This raid, however, “disturbed” the Hawks as it appeared that police were involved in enabling the suspect in his “criminal underworld” activities, because SAPS-issued paraphernalia was discovered at the house. According to a source, the suspect is believed to be a Portuguese national and owns the property where the raid occurred. The source added that over R1million in counterfeit money was also seized. The suspect, who cannot be named, was arrested yesterday. Speaking on the sidelines of the raid, Prince Mokotedi, head of the Hawks in Gauteng, told The Star that this “intelligence-led investigation” began in February, leading law enforcement agencies to yesterday’s raid. “We opened up an inquiry (docket) on the suspect, where we were looking for various criminal activities that we suspected that the suspect was involved in,” Mokotedi said. “We uncovered 19 rifles (and) one revolver that is unaccounted for. We found an R5 magazine; we found 
1.7 million rounds of ammunition, some of which is still in boxes. But what is disturbing is that we found detonators and explosives,” he added. The bomb squad had just removed the explosives and detonators when The Star arrived, and Mokotedi said some of the heavy artillery belonged to the police. “The disturbing thing is that some of the detonators are SAPS-issued. We also found some SAPS apparel in this place. We found the (plastic restraints) and also the SAPS handcuffs,” he pointed out, promising to get to the bottom of police involvement in the suspected crimes. According to Mokotedi, the suspect is believed to be linked to syndicates involved in illegal mining, illegal poaching and illegal hunting. The Hawks head added that the police had been following the suspect for a while. “As you can see, he hasn’t really unpacked a lot of things.” @khayakoko88