And they pointed out that doing so would not only mean the world would avoid dangerous global warming, but also prevent millions of premature deaths a year and create about 24 million more jobs than were lost. One of the scientists said the social benefits of following their roadmap were so “enormous” and essentially cost free that human society should “accelerate the transition to wind, water and solar as fast as possible”. Rooftop solar panels and major solar power plants; offshore and onshore wind turbines; wave, hydroelectric and tidal schemes; and geothermal energy would also be used to replace fossil fuels to generate electricity, power vehicles and heat homes. The UK is about to publish its own Emissions Reduction Plan, which is supposed to set out how Britain will meet its international commitment in the fight against climate change - to cut emissions by 57% below 1990 levels by 2030. While the UK has been making good progress on decarbonising electricity generation, the transport and domestic heating sectors remain problematic. As part of its attempts to improve air quality, the government has announced it will ban the sale of new fossil fuel-powered vehicles in 2040. It remains to be seen how radical it will be in encouraging the switch from gas central heating to low or zero-carbon methods. Writing in the journal Joule, a team of researchers led by Professor Mark Jacobson, of Stanford University in the US, warned that the stakes were high. “The seriousness of air pollution, climate and energy-security problems worldwide requires a massive, virtually immediate transformation of the world’s energy infrastructure to 100% clean, renewable energy producing zero emissions,” they said. “For example, each year,
between 4 million and 7 million people die prematurely and hundreds of millions more become ill from air pollution, causing a massive amount of pain and suffering that can nearly be eliminated by a zero-emission energy system. “Similarly, avoiding 1.5ºC warming since pre-industrial times requires no less than an 80% conversion of the energy infrastructure to zero-emitting energy by 2030 and 100% by 2050. “Lastly, as fossil-fuel supplies dwindle and their prices rise, economic, social and political instability may ensue unless a replacement energy infrastructure is developed well ahead of time.” The roadmaps were deve-
loped for 139 countries for which information about energy systems was available, out of the total of 195. They “describe a future where all energy sectors are electrified or use heat directly with existing technology, energy demand is lower due to several factors, and the electricity is generated with 100% wind, water and sunlight (WWS)”, the researchers said. “The roadmaps are not a prediction of what might happen. They are one proposal for an end-state mix of WWS generators by country and a timeline to get there that we believe can largely solve the world’s climate-change, air pollution and energy-security problems,” they added. Jacobson, director of Stanford’s atmosphere and energy programme, said political leaders needed reassurance that the transition to a zero-carbon economy would work. “Both individuals and governments can lead this change. Policymakers don’t usually want to commit to doing something unless there is some reasonable science that can show it is possible, and that is what we are trying to do,” he said. “We are not saying that there is only one way we can do this, but having a scenario gives people direction.” Fellow researcher Mark Delucchi added: “It appears we can achieve the enormous social benefits of a zero-emission energy system at essentially no extra cost. Our findings suggest that the benefits are so great that we should accelerate the transition to wind, water and solar, as fast as possible, by retiring fossil-fuel systems early wherever we can.” The researchers decided to exclude nuclear power, coal with carbon-capture-and-storage, biofuels and bioenergy from their vision of the future. On nuclear, they highlighted the risks of weapons proliferation and the chance of a power plant meltdown. - The Independent