Motaung died after being admitted to hospital due to complications related to diabetes. He was best known for his 1990s hit song Fatty Boom 
Boom. “The family has found it difficult to cope with his passing because we thought he would be better,” Brian Motaung told The Star during the singer’s memorial service in Tembisa yesterday. Brian, Anthony’s younger brother, said the last few months leading up to his brother’s death were hard as he had been in and out of hospital. “His leg was amputated in January, this was followed by the pinky finger on his left hand, then followed by four other fingers,” Brian said. “After he was discharged, he spent a few weeks at home before being admitted again.” WATCH: #DumiMasilela celebrated at moving memorial service Brian explained the purpose of this admission was to check on his leg, however that was when things became worse. “He was getting a skin graft and said he would be discharged after two weeks, but a few days after that we received a call that he was in ICU,” Brian said. He said Tsekeleke had been improving, but the skin graft operation slowed down the recovery rate. “A family friend who works at the hospital and sometimes checked on him called us and asked us to come to the hospital,” he said. “When we arrived at the hospital, we found that his leg was cut further.” Brian said that the family approached the hospital to ask why they were not contacted before the musician was operated on. “They showed us a consent form that Anthony signed. And we couldn’t do anything about it,” he said. Brian said that Tsekeleke’s health deteriorated and the family began fearing for the worst. “He died two days after that. “He was in a critical state and doctors could not do anything to help,” Brian said. Many convened to celebrate Tsekeleke’s life.  They included DJs Vetkuk and Mahoota, Eugene Mthethwa and Jakarumba from the kwaito group Trompies. DJ Vetkuk said Anthony would be remembered for his massive personality and sense of humour. “He was always easy going, always laughing and making jokes. “There will never be anyone like him - the music industry has lost,” DJ Vetkuk said. Former 'Generations' actress dies Prophet Paseka Mboro Motsoeneng, who was also at the service, described Tsekeleke as a man who feared God. He bemoaned the lack of support that Tsekeleke’s family was shown since his death. “People love you when you perform but where are they now? “Just two celebrities here today. He died a painful death,” the prophet said. Jakarumba, meanwhile, described the kwaito star as a lovely person “who would never hold a grudge against anyone”. His funeral will be on Saturday and he will be buried in Tembisa.  @Tankmaester   The Star 