While South Africa and Kenya battle it out on the field, spectators are in for a treat as they  enjoy the finest that the Polo has to offer at the 110th Prince of Wales Cup. This is as the Allure lifestyle marquee will once again be hosted at the prestigious event which will be held in Centurion next month. Allure founder Bonnke Shipalana (corr) explained that the event is about introducing an entire new crowd to the sport of Polo. This fits in with the theme  ‘Be Bold. Be You. Be Polo,’ where attendees are encouraged to arrive at the Rosefield Polo Club in their glamorous attire as they enjoy the game socialising and indulging in delectable food and beverages. “The theme for 2017 speaks to Africans exploring new lifestyle spaces such as polo, but remain true to what defines us as Kings and Queens of Africa,” said Shipalana. “While having a good time is an element, Allure is using it as a platform to enlighten a new audience that has not previously had exposure to the sport about everything it encompasses from the rules, etiquette, fashion and traditions of the game.” He added that the event was also the perfect opportunity to make business and social connections. “It is also a great network to expose South Africans to various economic avenues available within the Polo sport.” While the crowds enjoy the Polo atmosphere in the marquee, Shipalana explained that the Polo match between South Africa and Kenya is also symbolic. This was as Polo, dubbed the ‘sport of kings,’ is not as popular in this country as it is in the rest of continent. “This match in particular is quite symbolic as while the sport hasn’t risen to the level of popularity it has in South Africa as it has in the rest of the continent.” “It has been well-enjoyed by the market for quite some time in the rest of Africa, particularly East and West Africa.” But he stressed that it much more than just about what is happening on the field. “The Polo Series is as much about the horses as it is about the memories and experiences the event represents.” He said that those who choose to the event at the Allure Lounge will be sufficiently accommodated. “The Allure Lounge promises to bring class and a dynamic twist to the day whilst epitomising the marriage of supreme leisure and lifestyle.” “The Allure Lounge concept, #BeBold, is designed to inspire and invite spectators to experience the Polo Series through appropriate fashion, premium beverages and entertainment in a relaxed and authentic atmosphere that characterises the fusion of all South Africans into a space that has always been perceived as traditionally reserved for the elite.” There will also be live music with Bob ‘The Jammer’ Mabena on the decks at the Allure Lounge After Party. Tickets for the event, which will take place on September 10, are still available.