Mayor Herman Mashaba has called on the community of Sandton to be a part of this movement for a better city. Elaine Jack, the Sandton Central Management District’s city improvement district manager for Cushman and Wakefield Excellerate, the company which manages public urban spaces, believes that when citizens work together, it can have a positive impact. “The Sandton Central Management District is an excellent example of what can be achieved by working together to shape a city and a community. It is home to three business improvement districts funded by commercial property owners to ensure the creation of an exceptional experience of this key node of Johannesburg for employees, visitors, tourists, shoppers, property owners and residents of Sandton central,” Jack said. “We are serious about creating a safe, clean and well-managed environment,” she added. “This makes a difference to people’s positive experience of Sandton central and positions it as a leading city and investment destination.” Sandton central employs a team of 56 public safety ambassadors, five patrol cars and 27 cleaning staff, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. They focus on crime prevention, cleaning, maintenance and landscaping. Jack said the impact was meaningful. Over the first six months of 2017, the Sandton central cleaning team filled more than 10000 dustbin bags, equalling more than 65000kg of waste, in the public space alone. “This is only possible because Sandton central’s business community works hand-in-hand to ensure that its spaces to live, work, play and stay, and the spaces between, are well managed,” said Jack. Mashaba was inspired by volunteerism in Kigali, Rwanda to start the cleaning campaign. He is facilitating the launch of a monthly volunteer campaign, largely focused on cleaning the city, but also going beyond this. Mashaba said earlier this week while launching a city-wide A Re Sebetseng clean-up campaign in Yeoville that on a trip to Rwanda a few years ago, he was taken aback by this kind of campaign, which runs every month. Once a month, every resident of the capital Kigali, including the president, goes out and cleans the streets and neighbourhoods. That has resulted in Kigali being one the cleanest cities in the world. “I have come to see how our city is held back, in part, because of the grime and litter which affects us all. As a city, we have initiated increased services within Pikitup, the city entity that provides cleaning services, and this is starting to bear fruit. However, government cannot be the only solution.” On September 30, the city will have its first city-wide clean-up supported by councillors and ward committees as well as businesses across the city. Plastic bags and gloves will be distributed at walk-in centres, clinics, libraries as well as participating businesses.