Cape Town - "At least I’m still alive," these are the words sarcastically uttered by serial murderer Cameron Wilson, seconds after he applauded Western Cape High Court Judge Chantel Fortuin's ruling. Fortuin handed down four life terms plus 71 years, which would run concurrently, to Wilson. As he heard his fate the 20-year-old serial killer appeared unfazed by all the strong media presence and crowded gallery. Dressed in his navy Nike track top, Wilson often smiled, giggled and slouched in the dock as Fortuin read out his sentence. Wilson was found guilty of 13 charges including five murders, one rape and three attempted murder charges. Fortuin said she based her sentence on three major factors; socio-economic, the seriousness of the crime and possible rehabilitation. She said the three life terms derived from three murders including that of 18-year-old Lekita Moore, 16-year-old Stacey Lee Mohale and Toyher Stober.
 
Lekita was stabbed 98 times by Wilson while Stacey Lee was raped, stoned and then set alight. He was also given a life sentence for a rape charge. The rape survivor testified twice during trial proceedings. Fortuin said looking at Wilson’s background, he came from a stable family despite him being raised in Heinz Park a community infested by drugs and gangs. “Millions of children grew up in such communities, but did not rape or kill. None of the victims did anything to provoke you before you killed them; the revolting scenes of the attacks. “You had opportunities to show sympathy and remorse, but chose not to. “Witnesses spoke of fear - tangible fear of witnesses - which left an impression on the court,” said Fortuin. At the mention of the murder of the two teens Wilson showed a smirk, followed by a giggle before moving restlessly on the bench. He also wiped his face a few times and rolled his eyes at the mention of the four life terms. But it was the noise from the gallery that appeared to have amused Wilson. Residents from Valhalla Park made their satisfaction of the sentence known as they cheered and applauded Fortuin when she walked out of court. Some stepped out shouting: ‘You will rot in jail’ and ‘Murderer!’ Family of slain Lekita were also overwhelmed by emotions. Her father, Charles Moore, said he was happy with the sentence, but still bared the pain of losing his daughter. “I cry every night for my child. She was my everything. He (Wilson) took my source of energy away. She is never coming back to us,” he said. Moore said he hoped Wilson would be sent to a prison away from the Western Cape. “He must feel the same way we feel. No one should be able to see him, not even his family. He is a serial killer.” Her cousin, Jolene Daniels, was comforted by a Valhalla Park community member. “I miss my cousin so much and today, I just miss her even more.  He should never be allowed to integrate with society ever again,” she said. State prosecutor Advocate Carine Teunissen, who prosecuted the matter, thanked witnesses and investigating officers for their assistance. “He was cruel and the crimes he committed were gruesome. He disrespected women and enjoyed manipulating them and when they defied him, he lashed at them,” she said. Wilson will only be eligible for parole after serving 25 years.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus