The opposition said the ANC has failed to uphold the constitution by targeting its senior MPs for voting against President Jacob Zuma. But Ramaphosa said the party was dealing with the matter internally after it hauled Makhosi Khoza and Derek Hanekom before disciplinary hearings. However, Hanekom has a few days to respond to ANC Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe’s letter asking why he should not be removed as chairman of the National Disciplinary Committee. Ramaphosa was appearing in Parliament to answer several questions relating to the Guptas, state-owned entities and the state of the economy. On the SOEs, he said the government was trying to improve their efficiency to stop getting bailouts. The SOEs have received almost R500billion in bailouts in the last few years. He said they wanted to improve their balance sheets and merge those which are not doing well. Some of the entities have been struggling with their balance sheets over the last few years and keep on losing billions of rand. SOEs have been a subject of leaked emails relating to state capture. Ramaphosa said the government was looking at how best to implement the report of the presidential review commission on SOEs. He said the reform of SOEs would be implemented to improve their businesses and operations. They also want to align the salaries of executives and boards of SOEs. Ramaphosa said no one will be spared in the prosecution of those involved in state capture. Without referring to the Gupta family by name, he said they would not be spared either. “Nobody, no family is above the law. Even in this case, whoever is found to have committed a misdemeanour should be dealt with. Nobody should think they can escape the long arm of the law,” he said. He said this after members of the opposition parties complained about the announcement by the Gupta family that they were selling their assets. Ramaphosa also told MPs he did not have powers to appoint a commission of inquiry to probe state capture. “As a leader of government, I have no power to investigate,” he said. The law enforcement agencies must investigate state capture and leave no stone unturned, he said. Opposition parties have warned the National Prosecuting Authority and the Hawks were dragging their feet to investigate the Guptas despite scores of leaked emails.