Developers, represented by Greg Katz, have assured those who have fond memories of the roadhouse, as well as the Johannesburg Heritage Foundation (JHF), that they will adhere to all requests made by them, such as putting up plaques or murals, bearing the original Doll House signage, which dates back to 1935. There was a huge outcry on July 2 when the Gauteng Heritage Resources Authority (PHRAG) issued a notice of intention to demolish the roadhouse, which is renowned for its milkshakes, burgers and "slap" chips. People from all over the city, and further afield, converged on the establishment for weekend outings - and some still do. Laureen Bertin, who was one of the main protesters, said while she appreciated that times have changed and there was a need for increased residential densities, especially along the Rea Vaya bus route, she felt the original building with its “turret” triangular windows should be kept. “The new extensions should go but the original building is still structurally sound and could be used as a youth or community centre," Bertin said. "High densities bring with them children and families who could use a youth centre for activities,” she added. Current Doll House owner Tony Leca said recently that after 8pm the area was dead. He added that Rea Vaya, with its out-of-the-way bus stations, meant patrons no longer wanted to walk there. The council estimated the area’s population density would increase sixfold. The land running alongside the Louis Botha Rea Vaya bus route was being rezoned for high-density housing, with developments ranging from two- to eight-storey buildings. Property developers were buying up land, and sellers of properties along Louis Botha Avenue were making a fortune as values have increased steeply since the proposed densification. Brett McDougall of the JHF said there were many emotions running high around the demolition of the roadhouse. “We have no actual objections to the demolition as buildings have been added through the years. "It is no longer viable as a roadhouse. We do, however, believe in the retention of memories of the place. "We have lodged an objection as a matter of principle, and we have asked for some kind of public artwork to be put up in the new development containing the original signage and being placed in a prominent place facing Louis Botha Avenue. "We also want the jacarandas to be retained,” McDougall said. The neighbouring Hilson Park, which offers sporting facilities, will be retained by the city as a facility for the youth and community members, he said. Katz said a plaque or mural would be put up to keep the memory of the historic Doll House alive. “We want to go even further than that, as we realise the tremendous historical, sentimental and emotional value of the roadhouse. “We understand the city’s thinking about densification," Katz added. "The culture of the use of cars, as well as the dynamics in the city have changed. "People want to live close to public transport instead of spending a fortune on transport. The Doll House has a big vacant car park which, in today’s culture of not relying on cars, is not of any value. "We can assure everyone that we will ensure that the Doll House memory is not forgotten,” Katz said. @annacox