The local producer for the show, Matthew Cook, said the show had to go on. “We sincerely apologise to those who have felt inconvenienced by the show going forward, but Harry Weber (co-producer, Weber Brothers Entertainment) and I felt that, taking into account that over 500 children were in attendance, we believed we couldn’t disappoint them at short notice.” Cook said performers from the show had experienced visa application and regulation problems which meant many were still unable to enter the country. The circus is set to go on until September 17 in Joburg, but the shows due to be performed this weekend (Thursday, August 31 to Sunday, September 3) have been cancelled. “While we wait for the details of when the remaining international acts will arrive this week to join the others already in the show, the decision has been made to cancel this week’s performances to be on the safe side.” Cook said that for now, only the Espana international troop had arrived in the country. Cancelling the shows would allow for rehearsals to take place for the rest of the ensemble. The official opening acts seen were the Russian Swing, Breakdancer, Hammock, Silks, Statue and Wheel of Death. South African talent was also roped in to perform.  “We have a lot going on right now trying to get everything in order. We had sent in the applications and had issues with updated circus members and families and hadn’t taken that into consideration.” Cook said the performers were coming into the country for a longer duration than the shorter work permits allow. “We applied for the long-term work visas, and the requirements were a lot more stringent.” He said preparation for the show from creation to planning was a six-month process. “There are many layers to the planning, so we have been preparing the concept and logistics for about two months.” The concept behind Splash is to showcase the circus in new and exciting ways for people to enjoy. “We are moving away from the traditional animal circus and telling a story. “The acts present these stories in novel ways with the use of technology, video mapping, lasers and water fountains to give the audience an experience of a lifetime,” Cook said. In the show, audiences get to see acrobats, magicians, stuntman and a variety of other talented people showcasing their skills. Performances from Thursday, September 7 until the end of the season on Sunday, September 17 will remain open for sales. Cook said they were working with the relevant departments to make sure the production would be able to reopen. He said members of the public who had bought tickets for the opening were welcome to get refunds. The show is set to move to Suncoast Casino in Durban from September 22, Golden Horse Casino in Pietermaritz-
burg from October 27 and Blackrock Casino in Newcastle from November 9. Splash is showing at The Globe, Silverstar Casino, in Krugersdorp. Tickets start from R100.