The Patriots For Equality (PFE) said a full-scale investigation by the Department of Basic Education would show irregularities in the appointment of a black principal at Klipspruit West Secondary School. Anthony Williams of the PFE yesterday said the community was eagerly awaiting confirmation for a meeting from the Gauteng Department of Education (GDE) to find a way forward and resolve the impasse. Williams said one of the core issues that needed attention was the role of the SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) in the appointment of principals and their deputies. “We are waiting for a meeting with them, which has been scheduled for next week, where we will sit and discuss the outstanding issues, including issues with Sadtu about its operation of Vat Alles (take everything),” Williams told The Star. “The whole process of appointing a new principal has been withdrawn and cancelled,” he said. “Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga will have to institute a full investigation to assess where the process went wrong and where it was flawed. Until that process has unfolded and is complete, there will be no principal coming to this school. The acting principal can, however, continue in that position.” Meanwhile, the community and the GDE have resolved that schooling will continue uninterrupted while the department continues to inform the public of details of the agreement between the two parties. The department said MEC Panyaza Lesufi would ensure that the Gauteng government engaged the community on other socio-economic issues affecting the residents. Department of Basic Education spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said Motshekga would not be in a position to institute an investigation of that nature, as she was yet to go through a report given to her by the GDE. “Once the minister has gone through the report, she will meet with the community and intervene accordingly, whether this means she needs to institute an investigation or take any other steps, but she cannot do anything until she has studied the report,” he said. Asked about what would happen to the principal who was appointed at the beginning of the school term, Mhlanga said: “That is a matter to be considered as part of the report given to the minister by the GDE; we cannot predetermine the outcome. She received the report on Tuesday,” he added.