Makhura hopes to dub his campaign Please Pay Me in his bid to recover the millions lost due to non-payment by the neighbouring provinces, as well as neighbouring African countries, whose patients travel to Gauteng for treatment. Yesterday, he said he was planning to approach the premiers of neighbouring provinces and various embassies in Gauteng to encourage them to pay for health treatment received by their patients. According to the department, up to 30% of patients in the provincial health facilities came from various African countries, and the department had to use its budget for their medical care and treatment. Makhura remained upbeat that he would also recover money from his fellow premiers, who in the past year collectively owed Gauteng more than R5billion for healthcare. Various efforts had been made to recover the money, including soliciting the assistance of former minister of finance Pravin Gordhan. Makhura was speaking during the announcement of the Gauteng provincial government’s audit outcomes over the past three years since he took over as premier in May 2014. In 2015, the Gauteng Department of Health obtained a disclaimer - one of the worst audit outcomes for a government department - which prompted Makhura to act, including overhauling almost the entire administration. The situation improved significantly last year after his interventions, which included a drastic reduction in unauthorised and irregular expenditure. Gauteng Health also became synonymous with failing to pay service providers within the required 30 days, but Makhura said there had been a significant reduction in the non-payment of service providers. Makhura vowed to knock on the doors of the department’s debtors to demand the money owed to it. He was happy that the Gauteng Department of Health was on the financial mend and ready to obtain a clean audit. “The Gauteng provincial government continues to make steady progress in improving financial management, eliminating wasteful expenditure and ensuring that public funds are used to deliver services to citizens. “We will continue to work closely with departments to ensure compliance by conducting monthly extensive reviews, quarterly and annual financial statements,” he said.