Ramaphosa said the campaign would help young men grow up “loathing all sorts of sexism” that is prevalent in the community. “Fathers need to be present in the lives of young men, because they have been neglected,” Ramaphosa said. He was speaking at an event in Soshanguve, north of Pretoria, to launch a series of dialogues about gender-based violence and substance abuse, targeting boys and men. The launch was attended by religious leaders and civil society groups, who urged men and boys to get involved in curbing gender-based violence, the spread of HIV and substance abuse. Ramaphosa applauded religious leaders for the initiative, saying they should continue to spread the message across the country by mobilising other men to be part of it. He commented on the highlighted problem of the Bluetooth phenomenon in the township, a practice of drug abusers using syringes to exchange blood after taking nyaope, to share the high. He said it was important for residents to raise the level of awareness against substance abuse. “Let’s say as the Soshanguve community that we are going to solve the drug problem, because it can be done,” Ramaphosa added. He said the community of Soshanguve was angry and frustrated by the high level of drug abuse. Ramaphosa pledged to take part in any anti-drugs campaign to be embarked upon by residents. “We need to develop a curriculum to teach young people about the danger of drugs,” he said. Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, who was at the event, said men were responsible for most of the transmission of HIV. He said in 2010, the government launched its biggest HIV campaign. Some 18 months later, 18million people were tested. Among those only 35% were men and 65% were women. “Men don’t know their status,” Motsoaledi pointed out. Boipelo Zwane, a participant at the event, said the reason why some women were infected with HIV was because of the “blesser culture”. “I believe older men play a part in infecting women, because they lure them with money,” Zwane said. The outcome of the dialogues would be tabulated in a report to be presented to the bi-annual Takuwani Riime men’s parliament, which has been scheduled for November 19, as part of International Men’s Day.