Cara Frew had wanted to be a singer from the age of seven. 
She studied music at school and had the opportunity to go to Los Angeles to study songwriting. In 2010, Frew travelled between South Africa and the US, learning about music in both countries.
“The industry is great here so I came back and rebuilt myself. Over the years I've managed to write songs and collaborate with several artists. I was very inspired by all the people I worked with in South Africa,” she said. When it came to sitting down and working on a specific project with some producers, Frew found it difficult to find someone who wasn't already busy with their own projects. “In 2015 I went to the Ultra Music Festival in Miami, where I got to perform with Black Coffee and also had the chance to sit in on some song-writing sessions, connecting with a songwriter there.” AFRICAN STYLE: Frew is keeping her music inspired by beats with an African flair. Picture Supplied.  Frew said she was lucky because in Los Angeles there were songwriters who focused specifically on projects to help new musicians. “I’m working with someone who has time to dedicate to an end goal and put an album together with me,” she said. Having just received her two-year working visa, she'll be able to spend more time fine-tuning her craft. “I’ll still be managing my time between both countries as I have gigs here at home and I’m a Johannesburg girl at heart,” she said. The 25-year-old is working on her first full album. Her first single, Dance, was released last Friday. “My music is pop vocals over African-inspired beats, not tribal, but lots of African sounds with beats and rhythms,” she explains. She said the reception she received from fans was always positive. “I love how supportive they are and proud of the work I have done so far. I love what I do and I am working as hard as I can to give fans a genuine experience,” said Frew. With this album she hopes to create a brand for herself and perform around the world. “I want to always be inspired and motivated, and be able to inspire other artists to chase their dreams,” said Frew. She said she had to prove to her father that this was what she really wanted to do. “When I reached out to Black Coffee, he initially didn't get back to me. Then, I was at the ADE festival in Amsterdam during the year, where South African music was being celebrated and I introduced myself to him, telling him I was a singer-songwriter. "He later saw a video of mine I had posted after Madiba died and he heard the song and wanted to collaborate with me,” she said. That’s how Frew ended up being the voice behind the multi-award-winning DJ’s song I'll Find You. Frew works every single day to improve her skills. She said it was believing in her self-worth that helped get her this far, even trying out for Idols to prove to her father that she was serious about singing. “Believing in yourself is key. I tried out for Idols to prove to my dad that I was serious about singing. Going through that process and sitting in on the workshops made me want this even more.” “You have to wake up every morning and know that you are intelligent and beautiful. Start to take the steps to your journey."
She said it was important to remember that everyone has a place in the world and some dreams may take longer to achieve than others but everyone had their own journey to take. @mane_mpi.