The ANC held a press conference following executive mayor Athol Trollip’s state of the metro address. The party presented a 30-page detailed performance report labelled “The DA brings the blues to Nelson Mandela Bay”. The report cites where the administration made pro-
gress but mostly highlights what the ANC perceive to be failures and setbacks. ANC leader Bicks Ndoni said the DA-led coalition had failed to deliver a message of hope to the people of Nelson Mandela Bay, highlighting that the metro failed to champion mega projects. Ndoni said the administration had failed to implement the integrated public transport system, despite dates given for completion, and there were still problems getting the project up and running. “Other projects (Trollip) mentioned today, those projects were unveiled by us, they can't claim those projects.” Ndoni said revenue collection was being celebrated at the expense of the poor, and catalytic projects were under way in advantaged communities - “the old wealthy white areas” - such as Baakens Valley, Summerstrand and Humewood. “They are celebrating money that came from poor people. It’s a celebration of criminal activity against poor people, the slaughtering of the poor,” said Ndoni. “Money meant to upgrade the townships is shifted to other projects and no attention gets paid to where the majority of people live. The refuse collection in the townships is a serious problem.” Ndoni added that ongoing tension within the coalition government was affecting council business. “The last few months have been characterised by instability, with council meetings being rescheduled out of fears and problems the coalition is facing,” said Ndoni. The ANC’s Rory Riordan accused the DA of being a government only for the rich, adding that their budget was the most anti-poor budget passed in the 23 years of democracy. Riordan said Trollip had achieved only 28.4% of the promises made at his "100 day in office" speech. “We represent the poor wards and the DA represent the wealthier wards, and it will come out in the way they govern. A year into DA government, a strategic plan does not appear to exist and the IDP (Integrated Development Plan) is a plagiarised document greatly lacking detail,” he said. Riordan said the lack of funding for new community facilities in poor areas over a three-year period was appalling, adding that property rates had risen by too large a percentage. “Forced removals are back, justified now by the twin reasons of legality and public order. "They are an unnecessary and cruel attack on our poorest citizens. To spend R2.2 million on legal fees to destroy poor people's property to justify your policy failures is disgraceful,” said Riordan. - ANA