The African Women Chartered Accountants Forum (AWCA) has chosen medical practitioner Dr Thandi Ndlovu as their Woman of Substance recipient.  She was awarded the title at a glittering award ceremony in Sun City last night. This was the 15th year that AWCA has held the awards and this year, about 300 people attended the event. AWCA president Lesego Sennelo described Ndlovu as an individual who has actively worked towards eroding stereotypes and breaking down barriers to broaden the possibility of opportunities for black women in strategic areas of business. The professional doctor has been a part of ‘building’ communities after she ran a private medical practice in Orange Farm, an informal settlement south of Joburg. “Looking at the criteria that had been used which is around identifying people who have talent, nurturing them and building them for leadership roles, that is at the core of philosophy” said Ndlovu. Ndlovu told The Star that she has several hobbies, one of which includes climbing mountains such as Mount Kilimanjaro. She added that the feeling of anxiety she experienced while climbing Africa’s highest peak was similar to the one she felt after winning the Woman of Substance award. “This is what I’m feeling now, I was surprised and I said to the organisers that nothing scares me I just go head first into anything I want to do.” She added that she loves challenges but this award made her feel afraid. “It makes me feel a little bit scared about how I am going to carry this,” said Ndlovu. “It's such a huge responsibility because of the women who have come before me.” Ndlovu is also one of the founders of Motheo Construction Group, one of South Africa's biggest black female owned construction enterprise. She said that when she got the nomination she felt honoured to be among a list of amazing women who have had an impact on society. This includes Dr Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, Advocate Thuli Madonsela and Dr Wendy Luhabe. Last year's winner of the Substance award was South Africa's public sector was former African Union Chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma.  Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa was among the distinguished delegates to honour phenomenal women in the field of chartered accountants and entrepreneurship. @Zwane_2li2ls