Almost 30 years ago, her father shot her and her sister to “cleanse the family’s honour” after her younger sibling fell pregnant out of wedlock and he deemed both daughters should pay the price. “When they shot my sister, she died,” said Fatima, who declined to give her real name for fear of reprisals. “When they started on me, our neighbours informed the police I remained in hospital for six to seven months, then the police put me in prison.” Fatima remained in prison for 22 years under a law that allows authorities to indefinitely incarcerate women considered to be at risk of being attacked or killed in the name of family honour. “Your life is gone, your youth is gone. Everything you wished for in the world is gone,” said Fatima, who lives alone in a shelter run by a charity. An estimated 65% of more than 1700 female inmates in Jordan’s prisons are held under the 60-year-old law, according to the Sisterhood Is Global Institute (Sigi), a women’s rights charity. Activists estimate at least 
42 women were murdered by their relatives last year, up 60% from the previous year. Human Rights Watch says there are between 15 and 20 a year. Jordan, which has one of the highest rates of honour killings in the world, has made strides to curb gender-related crime and boost women’s rights. Parliament voted this month in favour of abolishing a law that allows rapists to escape punishment by marrying their victim. The penal code was amended in March to no longer allow judges to grant reduced sentences for perpetrators of honour crimes. “Jordan’s customs and traditions differ, but the population has become noticeably more aware, open and understanding about issues related to women,” said Basel Tarawneh, a government co-ordinator for human rights. But women’s rights groups call for stronger penalties and to end the practice of imprisoning women at risk of being killed for their own protection. Their imprisonment is often justified by lack of alternatives, such as safe shelters. “We haven’t created enough protection services and we have not made any effort to change social attitude,” said Salma Nims, secretary-general of the Jordanian National Commission for Women, a semi-governmental body that promotes women’s issues. “So we end up with a government that (makes) the victim the persecuted.” The Danish Institute Against Torture's 2014 report described how the women blamed themselves and felt “isolated, persecuted and rejected”. One of the biggest problems for women in protective custody is that they are held with all types of detainees. “This can lead to a lot of psychological problems and real fear," said Adam Coogle, a Middle East researcher at Human Rights Watch. Fatima experienced abuse from other female detainees. “I no longer knew who I was and what I am,” she said. For the women to be granted a release, a male family member must act as guarantor and sign an order of protection. Often these are the relatives who threatened the women’s lives, resulting in women being injured or killed after their release, according to Dignity. - Thomson Reuters Foundation