The 26-year-old took home the title of MTV Base’s next VJ after months of auditions, beating out thousands to claim the prize. The announcement was made on Sunday at the finale held at Icon in Soweto. Mosupye beat runners-up Kuhle Adams and Gontse Makgoba for the title. The fitness fanatic started out in promotions before venturing into entertainment. When he isn’t chasing his creative dreams, he works as a fitness instructor. “I love fitness; it’s one of the methods I reached out to to break free from my bout of depression. I read and I love creating and designing clothes. Whatever I do, I always give it my all and do the best I can, I am inspired to become my greatest self,” he said. “My dream has always been to be part of the entertainment industry, be it modelling, acting, presenting or being a composer, as I can play the keyboard. I have one fear, and that’s to go on with life not having given a shot at the opportunities that present themselves.” It was his persistence that made him go for the audition. Mosupye said he wanted to learn more about the industry. “Eventually I want to have an impact behind the scenes. To be able to help and share ideas of content I have with the masses and just have a positive influence on the industry as a whole.” On the night of the announcement, Mosupye said, he was nervous. “It was that and excitement all at the same time. Moving forward was going to be something else. There were no more challenges to do, and when they called my name, I was so surprised and amazed,” he said, adding that his emotions took over and he cried. Sponsor Breezer’s Anshuman Goenka said Mosupye showed what it meant to truly live life in colour when it came to the final decision. “He was a real fighter who would never give up. He embodies a passion for life and we wish him well as he builds his brand,” said Goenka. His family also share in the joy. He said the atmosphere in the family home in Naturena was much lighter as they could all breathe a sigh of relief. “My mom calls me VJ now. It really is a beautiful feeling. The stress was getting to my parents but I think they are most proud that their son is going to live his dream.” Mosupye walks away with a 12-month contract with MTV Base and will get the opportunity to meet and interview some of the world’s biggest stars. “Youth culture is the heartbeat that drives our business. MTV Base continues to nurture fledgling talent into on-screen superstars, and we see Tshego as another incredible local success story. Winning the search has already transformed his life and we look forward to his journey in the next year,” said Monde Twala, vice-president for BET, youth and music for Viacom International Media Networks. Mosupye starts shooting for MTV Base on Monday. @mane_mpi