Mkhwanazi-Xaluva yesterday threatened to sue the Incredible Happenings leader, while Mboro threatens to fight to the end. Addressing the media at the CRL Commission offices in Joburg, she said she felt insulted by the prophet, who she accuses of having said she “wanted him romantically”. “Prophet Mboro has made many allegations against me; he accused me of being a liar, of being corrupt, he said I am an anti-christ, but the worst insult that anyone has ever uttered against me was that I am in love with him and I am behaving like a woman who has been jilted,” Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said. Mboro denied saying she is romantically interested in him. “I didn’t say that. I have never said that. These are utterances made by other people who have asked me in the past whether Thoko is a disgruntled ex-girlfriend because this matter between her and me seems to be personal,” said Motsoeneng. He claimed comments about giving Mkhwanazi-Xaluva an ultimatum to resign were misinterpreted. “After the deadline which I set for her to resign passed, I did what I said I would do and I went to court and filed papers against the commission.” Motsoeneng last week withdrew his request to prevent the commission from implementing its recommendation but remain-
ed adamant he would not pay the CRL’s legal costs - as ordered by the court - and would sue Mkhwanazi-Xaluva for telling people his arrest was imminent. Mkhwanazi-Xaluva believes her life is in danger and wants protection from the prophet. “He will harm me. Most women who end up being harmed or killed had been threatened before the final act,” Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said. “I find myself, during Women’s Month, being publicly threatened by a man of God, being given deadlines to resign, being called immoral and a corrupt liar.” Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said she had opened a case of intimidation, crimen injuria, harassment and incitement against the prophet. She said that despite this, Motsoeneng continued to harass and insult her. “I will be applying for a protection order as I believe that if left unchecked, he will physically harm me or, worse still, kill me,” she said. She told reporters she had escalated the matter to President Jacob Zuma, while increasing security for her family and herself. The prophet denied the allegations and maintained the chairperson had been defaming him. “There has never been a day where I ordered anyone to attack, kill or threaten the CRL chairperson, direct or indirect. Thoko is continuing to make herself an enemy of the church.”