This is according to DA MPL Jack Bloom, who yesterday briefed the media in the Gauteng Legislature on the state of bed shortages and poor facilities in the province. Bloom said this was revealed by Gauteng Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa in a written reply to his questions in the legislature. Ramokgopa said 1854 patients had been admitted to hospitals which lacked dedicated psychiatric wards. These hospitals include Pholosong Hospital - where three patients died and another was raped - the Far East Rand Hospital, Heidelberg Hospital, and the recently completed Bheki Mlangeni Hospital. “Pholosong had 763 psychiatric patients, the Far East Rand Hospital 711, Heidelberg 285 and Bheki Mlangeni 95 patients,” Bloom said. More than 100 psychiatric  patients died from neglect and a lack of food, among others, between March to December 2016 in Gauteng, after the provincial Health Department moved about 1600 of them from Life Esidimeni to NGOs in a bid to cut costs. Ramokgopa’s response said Gauteng public hospitals admitted 18387 psychiatric patients in 2016, with 44525 of these patients placed in ordinary wards with other patients. The department’s spokesperson, Prince Hamnca, confirmed there was a shortage of beds for psychiatric patients, but said the department was working towards resolving the problem. “Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital (in Pretoria) is planning to add 300 more beds, construction of which will commence in 2018. Sterkfontein Psychiatric Hospital will be adding 10 beds by 2018 and so will Helen Joseph,” he said. Hamnca added that general hospitals including Kalafong, Mamelodi Regional and  OR Tambo Memorial Regional Hospital, still need to be redesigned for psychiatric beds. “It’s true that Pholosong, Bheki Mlangeni, Heidelberg and the Far East Rand hospitals are the only facilities that don’t have dedicated psychiatric wards,” he said. “With regard to the conditions for the Weskoppies psychiatric patients, we will send a team to assess the situation at the facility,” he said. Earlier this year, the department lamented the shortage of beds at Gauteng psychiatric hospitals with the waiting period for patients being between four to six weeks. “The worst affected is South Rand Hospital, which admitted 
2586 patients last year, but only 972 were placed in ordinary wards,” Bloom said. Thelle Mogoerane, Sebokeng, OR Tambo Memorial, Jubilee and Leratong hospitals all have psychiatric wards but they were found to be inadequate, resulting in 1592 out of 4164 patients being admitted to general wards. “Placement of psychiatric patients in general wards is not ideal, as there should be special security measures both for their safety and the safety of others. A number of suicides, injuries and sexual assaults have already been reported at various hospitals for this reason,” Bloom pointed out. The picture is just as grim at other hospitals around the province that are in need of repairs. Psychiatric wards at Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital have plumbing challenges but upgrades are under way, and construction of new psychiatric wards at  Helen Joseph Hospital have been suspended. “There are bed capacity issues at Thelle Mogoerane, with no CCTV cameras in the ward. The ward at Sebokeng Hospital is not compliant with the provisions of the Mental Health Act and the cubicles at Pholosong Hospital where patients are admitted are not conducive for such patients,” Bloom said. He said his inspection led to the discovery that there are infrastructure problems at all the four specialised mental hospitals, with major renovations needed at Weskoppies and Tara hospitals.