For as long as he can remember, Patoranking was the child who would always try to entertain people by singing.
“I also loved playing football; however, as I grew older, my love for music grew stronger than anything else.” Patoranking, whose real name is Patrick Nnaemeka Okorie, is a popular reggae dancehall singer who has collaborated with the likes of AKA, Sarkodie, Elephant Man, Tiwa Savage and Khuli Chana. He released his debut album, God Over Everything, last year and recently performed at the Reggae Sumfest in Jamaica. “It was a great experience - being in Jamaica as the first ever African artist to perform at the Reggae Sumfest was incredible. I look forward to performing on that stage again.” His music has been well received not only in his home country of Nigeria, but also in the rest of Africa. Mary Makgatho's death leaves SA shocked! “It has been nothing but love, and the Reggae Sumfest is testament to that statement. The response from fans around the world has been positive - it’s overwhelming and humbling.” The My Woman, My Everything hitmaker is one of the four music heavyweights who will be setting the Orlando Stadium in Soweto on fire next month for the Red Bull Culture Clash. For the Clash, Patoranking will be bringing in his good friends Major League DJs and Gemini Major. “We are working together on something epic. We are putting in the work and hours to bring nothing but fire on the night. Without giving away too much, I can say that we have some big and unpredictable surprises planned.” 'Generations: The Legacy' gets a slap on the wrist for 'sex scenes' He said he joined the event because he wanted to be part of one of the biggest music showdowns. “In its format, it’s one of the biggest in the world, and what better platform to showcase my universal sound. It’s not a usual music concert, it’s a battle of epic proportions with four of the continent’s biggest names going head to head with four different sounds on four stages, and the crowd decides the winner. That’s exciting to me because I have fans not only in Nigeria, but also in South Africa.” The No Kissing Baby star has a new song with Tanzania’s Platinum Diamonds coming out next month. “The record has a new sound and I believe music lovers will love the direction it has taken.” He said the fans should bring all their energy on the night. “It’s on; you are not ready for what we’re bringing to the 2017 Red Bull Culture Clash - South African edition. History is about to be made; watch and learn.” * Tickets can be purchased from Computicket from R150. The Culture Clash will take place on September 24.  IOL   @mane_mpi 