A recent study has found that popular hairstyles meant to enhance a woman’s appearance in fact cause a loss of their precious strands. “Two top trending hairstyles, braids and hair straightening, are causing abnormal hair loss in young South African women,” the research concluded. The survey was conducted by local market company Insight Survey on behalf of shampoo brand Plantur 21. It involved interviewing about 1000 women between the ages of 18 and 39. It found that about 70% of the participants who used straightening irons experienced hair loss. Of women who braided their hair, 50% experienced hair loss. Those who straightened or braided their hair complained that these hairstyles were causing their hair to thin. The survey showed that 60% of respondents had braids or hair extensions, and an average of 60% of all respondents straightened their hair. The highest percentage of those who straightened their hair came from KwaZulu-Natal: 69% of the respondents. Another interesting finding was that among the total sample surveyed, 43% of respondents reported thinning or abnormal hair loss. This included those who did not straighten their hair or have braids. A previous survey conducted by the hair care brand showed this number rose to 50% among women aged between 46 and 55. The same 2015 study revealed that more than a third of South Africans who were polled said they were showing signs of early hair loss. The participants said this impacted negatively on their self-confidence and their appeal to their partners, and led to anxiety and depression. Head of Germany-based Dr Wolff Research, Dr Adolf Klenk, said there were several factors which contributed to hair loss. They included stress and an unhealthy lifestyle. “Emotional stress and crash diets or imbalanced diets contribute to hair loss, and the physical stress on hair from braiding or from straightening agents may be an added factor, as the survey displays,” said Klenk. A woman, who didn’t want to be named, told The Star that she used to straighten her hair up to five times a week and that after a few months of doing so, she noticed that her hair was falling out. “I always used to have thick, long hair, but once I started regularly using a straightening iron, I saw that my hair was getting thin and falling off. “I then started using a shampoo for thin hair. “However, now I only use the straightener about two times a week, and my hair is getting back to its natural volume.”