Tomorrow will be the last time the Lions boss steps onto the turf at Ellis Park before he starts his new job as head coach of Gloucester in England. He will want one more big effort from his Lions players as they look to land one of the biggest prizes in rugby - the Super Rugby trophy. They are up against the seven-time champions, the Crusaders, from New Zealand. The Lions have only played one other Super Rugby final - last year in Wellington, where they lost 20-3 to another Kiwi outfit, the Hurricanes. Ackermann has been credited with playing a major role in turning the Lions’s fortunes around after they were dumped out of Super Rugby in 2013. “I’m just embracing as much as I can and enjoying my time with the players,” he said. “You play the whole season to make it to the last week of the competition just so you can spend as much time as you can with the players ... and now we are here, and the hour-glass is running out. “It’s been so special. The memories we’ve made ... I’ll treasure so much.” Ackermann said fans are desperate for a win tomorrow; but for him, the Lions have already achieved greatness. “I know there will be a lot of emotions and that if we win everyone will be happy, and if we lose there will be sad faces,” he said. “But I already respect the players, for the way they have supported me and the coaching team. It’s been a pleasure to get up every morning of the week and drive from my home in Pretoria and spend it with these guys. “One result isn’t going to change that.” Jaco Kriel, who has captained the Lions in their last four matches following an injury to Warren Whiteley, said tomorrow’s result will not define the team’s season. “When you look back at the journey we’ve been on for four years, one win (or loss) isn’t going to define us,” he said. “It’s only one game ... what we’ve done in four years is what’s important, the brotherhood we’ve built, the love and care we have for each other ... that is what is unbelievable and incredible. “It doesn’t matter who is going away after the match and who is staying, we will always be together.” Ackermann said every person who has been involved with the Lions in recent seasons was a part of the family. He singled out Whiteley, Julian Redelinghuys, Howard Mnisi and Dylan Smith, who are all injured and miss out tomorrow, as well as former Lions players Warwick Tecklenburg, Schalk van der Merwe and Willie Britz. “Willie sent me a message wishing us well and I told him he, too, was part of this journey. Every player who’s worn the jersey has made an impact here,” Ackermann said. “Julian has started a mentorship programme, Warren is heavily involved in the team environment, and even Howard and Dylan have done a lot behind the scenes. “Getting into this final has been a collective effort where so many people have played their part.” Time waits for no one, but for the Lions, “Father Time” might wait long enough for them to bag their prize.