This was announced last night at the opening of the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week, held at the Mall of Africa’s Waterfall Park in Midrand. The prestigious international award is in commemoration of the late Franca Sozzani, the editor-in-chief of Vogue Italia, whose passion and commitment played a significant role in promoting fashion as an engine of transformation and economic development and creativity. Moloi-Motsepe, the African Fashion International (AFI) chief executive, was nominated by Sozzani’s son, film director Francesco Carrozzini, and Norway’s Crown Princess Mette-Marit. The award celebrates Moloi- Motsepe’s “considerable efforts in connecting, creating and promoting African fashion designers and opening up new avenues for disadvantaged women". “I am truly honoured to be nominated for the inaugural Franca Sozzani Award. It’s an award I share with all my colleagues, clients, designers and fashion creatives in Africa,” said Moloi-Motsepe. “They inspired me to become a true pioneer of luxury African fashion to create, co-create, develop and grow a global audience that recognises and rewards Africa’s creativity, ingenuity and craftsmanship."  The award will be presented at Fashion 4 Development’s seventh annual official first ladies lunch. This event takes place during the 72nd session of the UN General Assembly at the historic Pierre Hotel in New York on September 19. AFI will also be running a parallel event in the hotel, showcasing some of the exceptional talent and designs from Africa. The gathering unites first ladies, diplomats, fashion VIPs and other influential people from around the globe to recognise and celebrate the unprecedented co-operation between diplomacy and fashion, for the greater good of women and children worldwide. “Over the past decade, African fashion has transformed on a global scale. I am so proud and privileged to have played a key role in recognising and celebrating our history and heritage through our passion for fashion and all things African," said Moloi-Motsepe. "From the beginning, I focused on building a world-class platform for African designers. A fashion platform that promotes African creativity and innovation. A platform that showcases all that Africa has to offer in all its abundance, uniqueness, authenticity and style. "Fashion is a hugely forward-
looking business," she added.