The charges against councillors Gamalihleli Maqula, 28, and Lungisa, 39, relate to a violent brawl which erupted during a council meeting in October last year. The pair appeared briefly in court yesterday where the case was again postponed. Defence attorney Luthando Nqga- kayi told the court he had submitted representations to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) and was awaiting a response which could possibly affect the provisional trial dates. “We can’t pre-empt the outcome. If it is not successful I may receive instructions to make representations to the national office,” said Nqgakayi. Both accused were excused from their next court date on September 14 when their lawyer was expected to advise on the next step. The provisional trial date has been set down for October 25. The councillors were supported by a group of ANC members who attended court proceedings. After court proceedings, Lungisa addressed the group, confident that the case against them would collapse. “This case is going to collapse. There is no case. It was a conflict within the council which is run by its policies. Any conflict within the council should be resolved by that council. “The case will be postponed and postponed. The matter doesn’t belong in court. Even after September 14, the case will be postponed,” said Lungisa. Following the incident last year, the pair handed themselves over to police and were granted bail of R1000 each. Maqula has a previous conviction for kidnapping and assault of a teenage boy and is serving a sentence of correctional supervision. Last month, the municipality called an urgent media briefing alleging the complainants in the case, chief whip Werner Senekal and mayoral committee head for roads and transport Rano Kayser, had received “verified death threats via SMS”, which the municipality claimed were linked to the case against Lungisa and Maqula. It is alleged that Maqula stabbed Senekal in the back with a sharp object, while Lungisa apparently hit Kayser with a glass jug over his head during a council meeting which turned chaotic. - ANA