This is according to model Gabriella Engels, who was allegedly assaulted by Zimbabwe’s first lady recently. In papers filed in the high court in Pretoria this week, the 20-year-old - represented by AfriForum - claimed Nkoana-Mashabane did not have the power to grant immunity to Grace. The papers cite the minister as the first respondent in the case and Grace the second. In the papers, the applicants said the minister had also failed to take into account that the alleged crime committed by Grace constituted a serious offence, as set out in the law. The applicants further asked the court to declare that the decision to grant Grace immunity did not mean she would not be prosecuted. Grace is accused by Engels of assaulting her and two friends at a luxury Sandton hotel after she had walked in on them. The young women were visiting her two sons. The wife of President Robert Mugabe flew out of the country under the cover of darkness at the weekend, in the wake of public outrage over the failure of the police to arrest her. This was after Nkoana-Mashabane had granted her diplomatic immunity. AfriForum’s legal representative, Willie Spies, said: “Ms Engels also states in her affidavit that the Foreign States Immunities Act (1981) explicitly excludes the granting of immunity to heads of state who are guilty of the death or injury of people in South Africa.” He pointed out that if heads of state themselves did not receive immunity in such a case, there was no way that their spouses or families could qualify for it. The court application is expected to be heard within the next four to five months, AfriForum said. Even though she has diplomatic immunity for now, Grace will not breathe easily for the next 20 years while the assault charge in South Africa hangs over her head. South African law stipulates that the right to bring a prosecution for a serious crime like assault does not prescribe for 20 years. Grace was supposed to have reported to the police to make a statement about the alleged incident the day after Engels had reported her, but failed to do so. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula then said “a red alert” had been put out to border police, and that “she is not somebody who has been running away”.