Ndlovu’s proceedings were postponed for another month following the denial of his bail application at the court. On July 7, the superstar was found  guilty of raping his 16-year-old relative in 2013. Magistrate John Baloyi, the presiding officer, postponed the matter to September 14 after the accused’s defence requested time to prepare for the sentencing proceedings. The 36-year-old musician’s lawyer, Piet du Plessis, told 
the court that he was not ready for the sentencing phase 
and required six weeks to prepare. The postponement comes after Ndlovu made a formal bail application pending his sentence. Ndlovu took to the stand to give evidence that he should be granted bail. “With all due respect to this court, I am willing to serve my sentence and I’ve 
gone as far as finding out ways 
in which I can better my life 
in prison.” The Sweetie My Baby hitmaker has been in custody for more than three weeks and thus felt it fitting to apply for 
a bail application at an amount deemed appropriate by the court. However, Baloyi told the court that this matter depends on whether the interest of justice can meet the release of the applicant, Ndlovu. Baloyi said the application came after Ndlovu had released his former lawyer, Dumisani Mabunda, and appointed Du Plessis. Baloyi said: “The accused has been convicted of rape A question remains if it would be in the interest of justice at this very late stage? “Furthermore, the issues of rape in this country are a matter of concern and it is for this reason our courts are now imposing robust sentences for such offences,” said Baloyi. According to the presiding officer, the accused was facing a heavy sentence and said that there would be a possibility that he would be a flight risk. Ndlovu said in his affidavit that he was a superstar who could be easily recognised and had no intention to flee or abscond sentencing proceedings. Ndlovu faces a minimum sentence of 10 years imprisonment unless the court finds reasons to give him a lesser sentence. State prosecutor Salie Pratisha asked the musician if he was in good health and 
if he had ever been assaulted while in prison. Ndlovu said: “No”. In arguing reasons to deny bail, Pratisha told the court that the accused had no medical condition or experienced assault while in custody. “The accused made reference that he was willing to serve his sentence. The word ‘willing’ your worship is upsetting and there is no choice in serving a sentence,” said Pratisha. @Zwane_2li2ls