The former AU Commission chair-
person had taken her campaign to become the next ANC president to North West yesterday, where the drama unfolded. The province is strategic in Dlamini Zuma’s campaign as it forms part of the so-called Premier League, a faction within the ANC supporting her to succeed President Jacob Zuma and possibly become the country’s president in 2019. At the koppie near Wonderkop, leaders of mining union Amcu, who included Xolani Nzuza, formed a human chain and prevented people from getting closer to it. The group, wearing Amcu’s green T-shirts, said in isiXhosa, “Bogogo nizofunanientabeni yethu, asinifuni apha, ayondawo yokudlala le”, which loosely translated means, “Hey, you grannies, what do you want on our koppie? You are not welcome here. This is not a playground.” This led to ANC Women’s League (ANCWL) deputy president Sisi Ntombela intervening and telling the party faithful, travelling in numerous minibus taxis, to return to their transport before leaving swiftly. Ntombela was heckled by the Amcu leaders when she said: “Let’s go back. These comrades are not ready.” Amcu also refused to address the media. Dlamini Zuma was accompanied by ANCWL leaders and supporters who were decked out in ANC T-shirts emblazoned with “NDZ for President”. Dlamini Zuma, however, is not the only ANC leader who is not wanted at the koppie. Zuma himself and his deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa, another presidential frontrunner, are also not welcome. The koppie, which has become a symbol of the frustrations of mineworkers, is where the police gunned down 34 Lonmin mineworkers on August 16, 2012. Ten other people were killed in the preceding week. Earlier on her campaign trail, Dlamini Zuma had a closed-session meeting with the Bapo Ba Mogale Tribal Council, which later addressed the community, saying they supported leadership by women and declared that Dlamini Zuma’s “endeavours to be a future president are endorsed”. A beaming Dlamini Zuma, speaking to The Star on the sidelines of her campaign, admitted for the first time in public that her campaign to become president was going full steam ahead. “It’s going well,” she said, with ANCWL secretary-general Meokgo Matuba interjecting, “And we are very confident.” Dlamini Zuma added: “I think it’s important, because the campaign has to also look at 2019 (national elections), and when you have the endorsement of the royal family it’s also important for 2019.” The former minister of home affairs, foreign affairs and health, explained that the royal family were not “just endorsing, they have their own views about what should happen going forward”. On Zuma’s proposal during the ANC policy conference that whoever loses the presidential race should automatically become deputy, Dlamini Zuma said: “That’s a matter for the branches and for the (elective) conference and not for me as an individual.” @luyolomkentane