This week, several media releases were issued stating that the City of Joburg had terminated its speed camera contracts and that there would be no enforcement of speed and other infringements. However, the city’s department of public safety said this was not true. “We are alarmed by the false impression created in the media that there is no speed law-enforcement in the City of Joburg,” said member of the mayoral committee for public safety Michael Sun. In January this year, the city discovered that the speed enforcement service contract between the city and the service provider was unlawfully extended. “In line with the new administration’s clean and accountable government stance, a decision was taken to terminate that contract. “As a result of the termination of the contract, the service provider removed the fixed cameras. In an effort to ensure that there is continuity of speed law-enforcement, the city has procured speed enforcement cameras and services from a different service provider, and infringement notices have been issued to transgressors,” he said. Furthermore, Joburg metro police department officers were operating hand-held speed cameras at various hotspots, Sun added. In the improvement of speed law-enforcement and service delivery to the public, the city has gone through a proper process to set out the tender bidding requirements and specifications. The tender advertisement for a new service provider was set to be published within the next three weeks, said Sun. “The new contract will be to the benefit of the city and its residents because it makes provision for the department to own both the system and the speed camera infrastructure. “The public is advised not to believe that there is no speed law-enforcement in the city. “In fact, the JMPD has deployed officers to various hotspots across the city to curb speeding by way of mobile speed cameras.” The primary function of the department was to ensure road safety, and the new approach it had adopted was visible policing when curbing speeding. “The department also dismisses the notion that the JMPD is dependent on fines revenue to operate. We have a budget, and each of our functions are accordingly allocated resources to deliver services to the residents,” he said. “Motorists must not be deceived into thinking that Joburg is a now a ‘speed free’ zone. We will continue to clamp down not only on speedsters, but also bad drivers on our roads. “The safety and lives of our residents are much more important than any fines revenue generated, and that is our priority,” Sun  warned. @annacox