Famously Single contestant David McIntosh is no stranger to controversy and kept viewers of the US reality show on the edge of their seats.  The British ex-military and security operative turned television personality, actor, and fitness model chatted to The Star about his time on the show and his love life.  Why did you decide to participate in the show? It was something interesting, and I was single of course. I wasn’t having much luck finding the one myself. So, I thought why not go a different route and see what happens on Famously Single. What did you ultimately want to achieve with the show? To be honest, I wasn’t going there with the premise of finding love. I went on the show with an open mind to have fun and have banter with the guys. I was open to anything, but I wasn’t going on there to find the one. How would you describe your love life so far in your adult life? It has had ups and downs. I have been engaged, but it didn’t work out. I have been married, it didn’t work out. I have been in so many relationships and put so much effort in, and it’s always ended up sour and not working. I have been unlucky, one may say. What do you think are the most challenging aspects of being in a romantic relationship? Jealous women. To be honest, being with someone that you have to always reassure – which I don’t mind doing – and dealing with jealousy. I think that has been a problem in my relationships. I think for normal women, who are not in the limelight, it can be difficult to date someone who is in the limelight, because they are always worried about, “Oh, who is he messaging now”, and they get jealous – it’s not good. What do you look for in a partner? A confident, powerful and naturally beautiful woman. A woman that is sure of herself and is also kind and considerate. I like a lot of things, it’s not a small list, it’s quite extensive (laughs). How has your experience on the show been so far? I will be honest; the show didn’t teach me anything. It wasn’t hard for me to do any of the challenges. It was quite easy to be honest – I am a confident person, I can speak to people, so going around and doing the task for me was great fun. I loved it. How have you found the experts’ advice? Rob was great, he gave me great advice. He told me to forgive myself and that is what I ended up doing. How has it been living with the other celebrities? I found it good. I liked chatting to everyone, but some of the people were quite young. But other than that, I like hanging and chilling with people. I can get along with everyone because I used to be in the military, and I’ve had to live with people and sometimes not get along, but I can still put differences aside and live with them.  What has been your highlight on the show so far? The highlight for me was getting to speak to my ex. She came on the show… things didn’t work out, but I was given the opportunity to plead my case and tell her that I loved her. What would your advice be to someone that is looking for love? Don’t rush. Remain who you are. Don’t look for qualities that are superficial. Don’t look for qualities that everyone else thinks are perfect for you. Go with your heart. Go with what you feel and what feels right, and don’t listen to everyone else.