Last month’s gathering in Canada where the local comedian, who has also found stardom in the US, performed is arguably the biggest comedy show in the world. The Daily Show host, who is in South Africa where he is set to perform, said he did two 90-minute sessions last month, because he wanted to deliver the best content possible. “I wasn’t happy with the first show, so I decided to change it completely for the second show,” he explained. “I love comedy and I have to rachet it up.” The funny man was speaking as a guest on 947’s breakfast club. The Star was invited to the live interview on Tuesday. Noah had media personality Anele Mdoda and her colleagues, who included co-presenter Frankie du Toit, in stitches as he candidly spoke of his time in the US, his international comedy shows around the world, and his visits to his home country. He also played the show’s usual games with listeners and took a request from a fan who asked him to do his rendition of President Jacob Zuma’s laugh. Ahead of his shows titled There’s a Gupta On My Stoep in Joburg and Durban, Noah explained that he had to re-immerse himself in the country’s culture to get content for his audiences. “I always want to do the best show possible and when I landed back in the country I had to recalibrate, I had to remember the rhythm of South Africa. I had to figure out what’s going on and I had to immerse myself in the news.” He added that he had to go through this process because he believed that if a person is an extensive traveller, they shouldn’t have an opinion of the news of the place they’re not in. “A lot of South Africans make that mistake, because then you don’t really know what’s going on. “You only get highlights or snippets from the news, but you aren’t experiencing it,” he told the radio station. “So when I land, the first thing I do is live in South Africa again, I feel it in the streets, hear what the news is and then start stumbling on things.” Although Noah has found overseas success, he insists that he has not let fame get to his head. He told Mdoda that many of the celebrities he rubs shoulders with at glamorous red carpet events were not necessarily his friends. The comedian even has a system to determine who his real friends are. “You’re not friends with someone unless they’ve been to your house or you’ve been to their house,” he pointed out. “That’s my rule and if that hasn’t happened, then you are more of an acquaintance than a friend. “I wish I was friends with these people, I know them but a friend is someone you can call when you’re stuck on the side of the road and you need petrol” Noah also spoke about the success of his book, Born a Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood, which is still on the New York Times best-sellers list, despite being released months ago. He added that he has had interest from people in Japan, Germany, Sweden and Russia for it to be translated there. “I’m very lucky, it’s doing very well.” Noah also thanked all his fans for their support and promised them a great show when he takes to the stage starting yesterday and ending on Saturday at the Ticketpro Dome in Joburg, and in Durban on Sunday. “I never take it (support) for granted, I appreciate everyone who comes (to the shows). “As long as you’ll have me, I’ll always be coming home”