This came as the ANC in Gauteng on one hand said yesterday that it had spoken to Gungubele and he would no longer comment about his stance on President Jacob Zuma regarding the motion of no-confidence debate on Tuesday. On the other hand, the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal had moved swiftly to discipline Khoza over her position against Zuma. Yesterday, Khoza remained defiant and again lashed out despite disciplinary charges laid against her and a warning from the ANC national executive committee. ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa told The Star that there was no contradiction in what the ANC in Gauteng did with Gungubele and what secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said on Monday. Kodwa said Mantashe did not prescribe what Gauteng needed to do with Gungubele. “There is no contradiction. We did not prescribe. “We said this behaviour is unacceptable. We referred the matter to the province,” said Kodwa. Gungubele also confirmed he would no longer speak on the matter. “The province came in and we discussed the approach and we engaged, and that engagement results in me stopping to engage in these matters in public,” said Gungubele. ANC provincial secretary in Gauteng Hope Papo said they met  Gungubele. “The ANC Gauteng provincial office bearers met with Comrade Mondli Gungubele following concerns raised with the province by the Office of the Secretary-General (Mantashe) on his recent public comments and pronouncements relating to the upcoming motion of no confidence by the opposition in Parliament,” said Papo. “After affording Comrade Gungubele an opportunity to explain himself, he was advised and requested to desist from making any further public pronouncements on the matter,” he said. But Khoza went on another full-frontal attack against the party in KZN. In a letter posted on Facebook to Ravi Pillay, the MEC for Human Settlements, Khoza questioned the jurisdiction of KZN in her case because her comments were made outside the province. She also said that given security threats against her, the hearing must be held outside KZN. Khoza said she remained unshaken despite the charges. “I may not be communicating with you every day but rest assured I’m unfazed and unshaken. “I’ll keep on fighting the rot in our country. We are all tired of these bullies who do not even understand the very instrument they are using to charge me”.