Members of the portfolio committee on public enterprises gave the assurance yesterday that the money they require should not be compared with the billions of rand they want to recoup from the Guptas. However, the committee would not say how much will be needed. They have appointed three senior MPs from different parties to meet with Mbete to outline the resources they need, including an evidence leader. Acting chairperson of the committee Zukiswa Rantho said they need the evidence leader to provide technical expertise to the committee during the investigation. The committee’s decision came after legal advisers from Parliament said in a legal opinion earlier that to appoint an evidence leader from outside would be expensive. Mondli Gungubele, of the ANC, said the resources they need would help the committee to investigate allegations surrounding state capture. He said they need money in order to recoup billions of rand. “That cost-benefit analysis, when people are investing billions and you refuse to deploy R1 million, is serious,” he said. Gungubele said they would need an evidence leader to drive the inquiry and put the allegations to the witnesses. Nqaba Kwankwa, of the UDM, said they needed the resources to ensure they were able to examine all the facts. “Are we not supposed to do a cost-benefit analysis, looking at the money that we will spend compared to what we will recoup?” Kwankwa asked. He said the evidence leader will have a “helicopter view” of the issues that need to be investigated and MPs from different parties will target particular areas of the inquiry. Zukile Luyenge, of the ANC, also called for more resources for the inquiry, saying they wanted to recoup the money from the Guptas. “Now that we have the recommendations we want, let us make up a delegation to approach the Speaker to ensure we have the necessary resources for the process to start. Here we are trying to recoup the money,” he said. Natasha Mazzone, of the DA, said Parliament needed to act swiftly as billions of rand were being taken out of the country “every day”. She said the sooner the process started, the better, and the committee would be able to recoup the billions of rand from the Guptas. MPs said it should not be an issue to find the money to fund the inquiry, and this would help speed up the process. The committee said the process could take months to complete due to the mountain of evidence placed before it. Included in the list of witnesses are former board chairpersons and former and current executives of Eskom.