Motsoeneng, popularly known as prophet Mboro, yesterday accused Mkhwanazi-Xaluva of unfairly targeting him. Mkhwanazi-Xaluva heads the CRL, which is a Chapter 9 institution that recently issued recommendations to Parliament after investigating unconventional religious practices that exploit congregants. Speaking at a briefing at his church in Katlehong, Ekurhuleni, Mboro opened by declaring: “It’s a day for a golden opportunity.” He warned Mkhwanazi-Xaluva that she has until Thursday to “repent”. Prophet Mboro added that his character had been defamed because he is “a prophet and religious community leader”. This was after Mkhwanazi-Xaluva allegedly called him a “false prophet” and “conman”. “She’s got until Thursday 6am to apologise to the church. “She must come shine my shoes and clean the church and I’ll allow her to remain chairperson of the commission. “We will abide by the laws,” he said. “Lizoduma uma engaguqi ngamadolo (It will rain on her if she does not kneel).” Prophet Mboro said news of him being a “false prophet” had reached far and wide. “Because of her bad behaviour, bishops in (the US) were praying for me.” On the legitimacy of the commission, he said: “It’s a state institution, a Chapter 9 institution and her (Mkhwanazi-Xaluva) job is to protect all religions.” Mkhwanazi-Xaluva demanded in 2016 that he declare how much money he had in his bank account and prove how much of the proceeds of his work go to social spending. He refused to do that on the basis that he was a businessman. Last year, the commission decided to reinstate criminal charges against him for not handing over audited financial statements. According to Prophet Mboro, Mkhwanazi-Xaluva refused an offer to have the financial statements submitted to the commission on condition that they would not be made public due to confidentiality of donors and his church’s right to privacy. Last April, reports emerged that Mboro had claimed to have visited heaven and took “selfies”, which were for sale. He said this amounted to defamation of character and was considering taking legal action in that regard. Prophet Mboro said the Facebook account through which the message of him having pictures from heaven was spread was not run by him or the church. On the matter of the selfies, Prophet Mboro said the chairperson had “insulted Christ and impersonated me”. “Jesus is king. Lord of Lords. King of Kings. She said what I’m doing is blasphemy. How can I be a prophet who insults Jesus?” He further charged that the commission was “disturbing” his work as a community leader and he had to redirect funds to build houses for people and renovate schools to pay legal fees. @mpho_wilton