Legendary mbaqanga singer Hilda Tloubatla, whose music career spanned 53 years, has been celebrated for her contribution to the industry.
The celebration of a founding member of the legendary Mahotella Queens took place at iSibalo House, the headquarters of Statistics South Africa in Pretoria. Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe, who attended the occasion, lauded Tloubatla and the group for being a living example of success and resilience. “They have never allowed fame and success to define them. They continue to define themselves through unrelenting hard work,” Radebe said. “The reputation of Mahotella Queens precedes them. The baritone voice of the late Simon Mahlathini Nkabinde would not have had a reputable reverberation across the world if he was not in the company of great women in the form of the Mahotella Queens.” Mahlathini collaborated with the group and was lead singer until he died in 1999. Radebe said: “Their music is not seasonal - it remains relevant and enjoyable through different epochs. “Every now and then Mahotella Queens nostalgia takes us back to the 1960s through to the 1990s, when Mahlathini, the basso-profundo with his voice groaning in style, sauntered the world vathi uMahlathini Nezintombi Zomgqashiyo.” The 75-year-old Tloubatla from Tembisa told the audience she started her music career at the age of 22. Who runs Idols? Girls! She said that many people thought that after the death of Mahlathini, it was going to be the end of the group. Tloubatla advised the audience of women to always show respect. “Let’s respect men and let men respect us because respect goes a long way,” she said. She later gave a stellar performance on stage. Statistician-general Dr Pali Lehohla, who mimicked the late Nkabinde’s style of singing a tune, Melodi ya lla Pitseng, joined the group on stage. Radebe hailed the country for ensuring there was representation of women in government, but said the emancipation of women was an ongoing struggle.  @RapulaMV   The Star 