And a raft of mouth-watering cuisine at the festival will complement the mood set by the much sought-after brandies that will be available. “We have a wide selection of delicious food, including Sumting Fresh, On The Go Streatery, Boxcar deli, Panini Bistro, La Fiamma, Brohemian Pizza, Balkan Burger and The Filthy Moustache,” event organisers said. Festival-goers will also be entertained by top local musicians at the event which will take place in Ekurhuleni next month. This includes Afrikaans rap sensation Jack Parow, who will headline the event which is hosted by The Green Room. While you rock to his tunes, you can also sip the artist’s signature Parow Brandy, which will be one of the drinks available at the festival. “With a selection of brandy distilleries to choose from, such as Brannas and Parow Brandy, there is no better way to usher in spring than with an ice-cold brandy and lekker music,” event organisers said. The rapper, whose real name is Zander Tyler, has always been vocal about his love for brandy and decided to release his own version of the drink at the beginning of the year. Since then, Parow’s three-year-old Pot Still Brandy has been available at selected bars and restaurants. Other artists who are set to take to the stage include alternative folk-rock band Crystal Park, known for their unique blend of beats, bass lines and rhythms found in country music. The group and Parow will be joined by femme rock ’* ’ roll power-trio Cortina Whiplash, and the Rambling Bones, with their country folk and dash of R&B music and horror, ballad-punk dress style. Rock ’* ’ roll duo Hellcats and fellow rock band, The Black Cat Bones, will also feature in the thrilling line-up. The Brandy Fest takes place at the Benoni Northerns 
Sports Club on Saturday, September 2. The event is expected to start at about midday and will continue to about 10pm. Tickets costing R150, which include a R7.50 booking fee, can be obtained via http://greenlive.nutickets.co.za/brandyfest Alternatively purchase a ticket at The Green Craft Bar at the Benoni Country Club.  For more information on the Brandy Fest, see www.greenlive.co.za or www.facebook.com/greenliveevents 