DURBAN - THE mysterious death of a woman found in a pool of blood on a driveway in uMdloti has shocked the community. Initially friends and relatives feared that Monique Oberholzer, 35, who had been partying in her suburb, was a victim of crime. However, that possibility was ruled out because she had been with friends who believed her death was a freak accident. Oberholzer was the managing director at Holiday Dreams, a company specialising in luxury self-catering beachfront apartments in and around uMdloti.
She was a popular figure in the area, especially for her involvement with community initiatives. Oberholzer’s best friend, Kirsten Horne, said nobody knows how she died. “We were all at the same party and she was meant to stay over at my place. I left the doors open for her but she never arrived and then we got news of her death. “It was definitely a freak accident. We were friends for seven years and were inseparable. Monique was loved by all who knew her. She was a larger-than-life character and a kind-hearted soul who would go out of her way to help people,” said Horne. She said Oberholzer had lived in the area for many years but recently moved to Musgrave to live with her mother. “She was single but in a wonderful relationship. She was at such a great place in her life and to think she’s gone is too much to deal with. We are all shocked. “She was a force of nature, always standing up for injustice, and she loved animals. She will be sorely missed by everyone who knew her.” She said details of the funeral were yet to be confirmed. Prem Balram, of Reaction Unit South Africa, said his team was dispatched after getting a call from a resident when Oberholzer’s body was found. “Upon arrival, paramedics assessed the deceased and found she had suffered life-threatening injuries. She was declared dead at the scene, having sustained facial and head injuries,” said Balram. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed the incident and said Durban North SAPS were investigating. Follow the Sunday Tribune on Facebook Follow the Sunday Tribune on Twitter  SUNDAY TRIBUNE