The latest police statistics from April to December 2016 indicate that countrywide, the Western Cape follows Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal, when it comes to the highest murder rates. Nine people are murdered a day in the Western Cape. Although the murder rate decreased by 0.1% countrywide in the Western Cape it rose by 0.7%, resulting in 2 481 people slain. Countrywide, the number of reported sexual offences dropped by 6.8% but in the Western Cape the number of reported cases increased from 5 343 to 5 361. There was an increase by 6.1%  in robbery with aggravating circumstances countrywide. The Western Cape recorded the second highest number of violent robberies with 18 513 cases, up 1.9%. Car hijackings rose by 8.2% with 1 730 incidents in the monitored period April to December. The top 10 police stations for gang-related murders between 2015 and 2016 were: Steenberg 82.8%, Belhar 77.8%, Elsies River 60.3%, Ravensmead 58.1%, Philippi 57.4%, Manenberg 53.3%, Mitchells Plain 50.8%, Bishop Lavis 49%, Mfuleni 28.6% and Delft 22.4%.  January Grandmother Louise Lourens, 74, smothered to death for tik money by a 30-year-old at Parow Park. Pregnant Nicole Pienaar, 28, choked and stabbed in her abdomen allegedly by her boyfriend Jacobus Oosthuizen and buried in his family backyard in Paarl. Alleged drug merchants Wendle Tarentaal, 29, and Ephraim Presence, 24, and their teenage girlfriends Stacey-Lee Visser and Kaylen Visser were gunned down in Chestnut Way, Belhar. Former Kraaifontein alleged gangster Ethan Taylor, 22 was found shot on the N1. Suleiman Ely, 38, was shot in his face as he walked to the shop between Dolan and Princess Courts, Hanover Park. Arafaat Jumat, 27, was gunned down in Gazelle Street, Eastridge, on January 9. Ismail Miley American Dyers, 27, was gunned down in Johnvlei Walk, Hanover Park, Zahnia Woodward, a 6-month-old baby girl was  shot dead while she sat on her father’s lap at an Ocean View bus stop. In an alleged revenge killing for the Tarentaal hit, alleged Sexy Boy and 26s gang boss Quinton “Kadarkie” Jacobs, 48, was shot while he sat in his car in Belhar. Co-owner of Klopse Troupe Mother City Entertainers from Belhar, Russel Jacobs, 38, was gunned down at his scrapyard in Blue Downs. Two men were shot in Beret Road in Leonsdale in Elsies River on January 23. Ugandan barber Waleed Mohamed was gunned down by three robbers, fleeing from a hardware store that they had just hit in Delft Main Road, near the police station. Delft dad of one, Ashwill Joubert, 28, died after a concrete slab was thrown at his car and he crashed into a pole. Mother of three, Aneesa Arrison, 43, murdered her 21-year-old son Waseen and injured her twin teen sons Yusuff and Jaccoob before killing herself at her home in Bernardino Heights, Kraaifontein. An unidentified Rasta was ambushed and killed by four men while he still sat in his bakkie in Pollux Road, Ocean View.  February On his way to the shop, Grant “Pirre” Storm was shot in the head on the corner of Valley and Homestead Streets, Rocklands. Three Somali shopkeepers, Mahad Salaad Ahmed 22, Muhuyadin Geedi Ali, 27, and Abdul Sallim, 28, were gunned down at their shop in Khayelitsha, in what was believed to be a retaliation killing for the shooting of a seven-year-old child. A 22-year-old man from Lwandle was nabbed by an alert traffic cop, hours after he allegedly murdered his 60-year-old mother and 22-year-old sister at his family home. On his way to work in Macassar, 22-year-old Alfonso Peterson from Tafelsig was beaten to death with a spade by men who had jumped on the back of the bakkie where he was sitting with his co-workers. Three gunmen shot Dylan de Wee, 20, while he sat outside his home in Matroosfontein. Grade 10 Rosendaal pupil Whaseema Mathews, 17, was gunned down when intruders burst into her friend’s home in Vuurlelie Street, Delft. Seven people were either stabbed or shot in Atlantis within a few days in the week of February 20, according to SAPS. A hawker, Julio Johannes “Borbo the Rasta”, was shot in the head outside Eureka Estate Shoprite in Elsies River. An off-duty cash-in-transit security guard, Andile Mabophe, 39 from Leiden, who was driving a BMW when he was shot by two carjackers when he stopped outside a friend’s house in N2 Gateway. On his way to the tuckshop, a Grade 11 pupil at an Observatory school, Manuel Hamilton, 17, was killed in a drive-by shooting in Caravelle Street, Rocklands. In what was believed to be a gang-related shooting, Brandon Cloete, 14, from Wesbank was killed close to his Diepwater home. In Wallacedene, Kraaifontein, Sibongile Mlungwana, 24, was viciously stabbed to death by his 28-year-old brother, near their home in Gwaza Street. Alleged Hanover Park Americans boss henchman Mogamat “Sakkie” Samodien, 40, was ambushed and shot by a rival gang while he stood outside Howick Court. A 29-year-old Lentegeur man was killed in a drive-by shooting.  March Manenberg teen Bradwin Benting, 16, was gunned down outside his home in Sonderend Road. Car thieves strangled IT specialist Enrico Smith, 29, in his Jacana Lane, Pelican Park home and made off with his 3 series BMW. Caterers Henry Fortune, 54 and his brother Lesley  were attacked by robbers and stabbed to death, while walking in Steenberg with their families. Out walking iIn Mackenzie Street, Delft, Michael Moor, 39, died in a hail of bullets. Missing 13-year-old teen Rene-Tracy Roman’s decomposed body was found wrapped in a carpet in a  backyard shack in St Agatha Crescent, Montague Village, Lavender Hill. A 48-year-old mother, Jeannette Johannesen, was shot in front of her 12-year-old son in her home in Boys Street, Fisantekraal. Eerste River High School pupil, Zadren Raymond, 19, was stabbed to death at school by a fellow pupil. While on his way home from mosque during the early hours of the morning, Abdul Kariem Samsodien, 49, was stabbed to death in Moira Street, Tafelsig. While the Pitbulls and Americans gangs did battle in Hanover Park, Grade 8 Groenvlei High pupil, Zinedine Pelton died when  caught in the crossfire. The body of a 34-year-old man who was shot in the head was found at the condemned GF Jooste Hospital site. A 21-year-old mother Mishkah Michaela Hendricks was pushing her 6-month-old baby is his pram in Rio Grande Street, Manenberg, when she was caught in gang fire. A 44-year-old Sniper security guard Siyabulela Sipuzi was shot while on duty, for his firearm. Metro cop Mgondisi Mkontwana was killed in an ambush on the corner of Eisleben Road and Highlands Drive, Mitchells Plain. Mother of four,Hanlie Smith, 36, of Delft, was stabbed to death by a 27-year-old woman for greeting a male friend. Lusindiso Ngcefa, 30, was shot when he tried to rescue a woman being dragged from her car by hijackers near Delft. A 63-year-old grandmother Ursula Hugo found murdered on her kitchen floor at her John Turf Road home in Hanover Park. Stasha Arendse, 11, was found raped, murdered and dumped in a field behind Swartklip Centre in Tafelsig. A 36-year-old man was found shot in Sonderend Road, Manenberg. While walking friends to school in Lansport Road in Hanover Park, 15-year-old Dorian Solomons was gunned down. Chantal Philander, 27, a mother of two, was brutally murdered in Blikkiesdorp Q Block. Nathaniel Davids, 12, of Bonteheuwel was found hanging from a fence at Netreg station. A 20-year-old man was shot at Riverview in Worcester. A 17-year-old was shot at Avian Park in Worcester.  April A cash-in-transit heist on the corner of Klipfontein and Carnier Roads, Rawoot Square, Rylands Estate, turned bloody when a 44-year-old security guard was gunned down. Alleged Fancy Boys gang boss Shamiel Eyssen, 45, was gunned down in Charles Calvert Street, Bishop Lavis. An alleged drug merchant was shot while conducting business in Devil’s Peak Road in Heideveld. Missing mother of two, Abenise Bowes, 29, was found buried in a shallow grave on a soccer field in Olympic Avenue in Grassy Park. Spanish dentist Mario Caesar Deus Yela, 48, killed his three-year-old twins Maximo and Octavia at Princess Beach in Hout Bay. A Northpine buyer of drugs was shot in Cavalleria Street, Scottsdene, and minutes later Rayno Davids, 26, gunned down in the same area. Dean Abrahams, 25, was  shot in Athon Walk, Hanover Park. Sharief Hermes, 42,  shot at Darwin Court, Hanover Park. Neville Harris, 33, was stabbed by a mountain bike gang, while he walked in Second Avenue, Grassy Park. Retired cop Henry Botha was  killed with a hammer by an intruder at his home in Highlands Estate, Philippi. Alleged Mongrels boss Frederick “Hansie” Heynes, 37, was shot while he sat in his car in Korfbal Street, Beacon Valley. A 33-year-old man was gunned down at the Club Galaxy car park, after he was involved in a scuffle inside the club. A 29-year-man  killed by a stray bullet near the Full Gospel Church of God in Hanover Park. A three-week-old baby died when his mother set fire to their Strand shack, with her family trapped inside. In what was deemed a freak accident, Constable Christopher Mouton was shot by his colleague, while they sat in their patrol car. Alleged drug dealer Chico van Rooyen, 34, was gunned down in the area called the Zoo in Scottsdene. While they sat in their VW Jetta near Nyanga Police Station, three young men died in a shoot-out. Two cousins, Shagon O’Malley, 32, and Tony Hartzenberg, 37, were shot execution style in Comet Road, Ocean View. A 38-year-old father of two was killed by one of four hijackers who tried to steal his Hilux in Molopo Street in Surrey Estate. A 31-year-old police officer confessed to killing 32-year-old Candice Alberts in Slangrivier in Heidelberg. An alleged 24-year-old drug dealer was killed in New Horizon, Pelican Park. Two men, aged 33 and 36, were shot in Sherwood Walk in Hanover Park. A 33-year-old man was found shot near Hanover Park Terminus. Deon “Igor” Williams, a known associate of alleged 26s gang boss Mayon McKenna was shot in Ravensmead.  May Alleged 26s gang boss Mayon McKenna, 40 and Jawie Isaacs, 23, were killed in Fairdale Street, Connaught Estate, Ravensmead. Security guard Patrick Castle, 28, of Strandfontein was killed in a hostage drama at Nyanga Junction. Three men, aged 17, 37, 50, were killed in a gang war between rival gangs the Terribles and the Bad Boys in Tiara Road, Leonsdale, Elsies River. Four-year-old Iyapha Yamile went missing while playing at her friend’s house and was found raped and murdered in Zone 14, Khayelitsha. Missing girl Courtney Pieters, 3, of Salberau, Elsies River was found raped, poisoned and murdered in a lane in Epping. An 18-year-old robber was stoned to death in an alleged mob justice attack in Ekuphumuleni. Scottsdene community worker Hester Taaibosch, 55, was gunned down in Joseph Street, not far from her home. Marco “Lange” Lawrence, 35, died in a shootout in Milton Street. Gunmen burst into a Delft Wendy house and shot the sleeping occupants, Luigi Bissolati, 22, and Theodore, 32. Sherwin Roberts, 26, was gunned down in Jasmine Street, Bonteheuwel, as he walked past a house that was being targeted by gangsters. A man was killed in a gang shout-out in Beethoven Court, Delft South. Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius, 21, was kidnapped, raped and murdered after being hijacked in Bird Street, Stellenbosch.  June Unathi Madotyeni, a 33-year-old mother, was raped, killed and her eyes gouged out in Zone 26, Langa. A Bellville taxi rank marshal was killed during a shoot-out at the rank. Missing from her home in Nomzamo, Strand, Minentle Lekatha, 5, was found raped, killed and her eyes were gouged out. Her grandmother’s boyfriend was arrested. On the way to the shop, Rodney Manning, 24, was shot and killed in Athol Walk in Hanover Park. Atlantis mother Octavia de Bruyn, 24, and her two-year-old daughter Cleo were found with their heads  buried in the sand in a field near the informal settlements Protea Park and Witsand. Four people from the same family were shot in two separate shooting incidents in Delft and KTC, Gugulethu. A 35-year-old man was shot in Albecore Street, Factreton. Belhar teacher  Esmerelda Brockman, 38, was shot in the head while she waited outside her husband’s tavern, Sydney’s Place, Delft. A Goodwood Prison inmate died during a fight between the 26s and 28s prison gangs. A Grade 9 Hillview pupil Keagan Overmeyer, 16, was shot during a shootout at an illegal car spinning event held at a mall parking lot in Elsies River. A nurse Renate Elsie Booysen, 52, was found stabbed to death at her Epsten Road, Lavender Hill home. Cop Denvir Dirks died after being shot by armed robbers in Magalies Street, N2 Gateway. He survived a month before succumbing to his injuries. Alleged 14-year-old Americans gangster Lushane Goliath was gunned down in Kensington. Alleged leader of the Luciano Boys of Chapel Street was gunned down at Fawley Court in Lavender Hill. One-year-old baby Jeremiah Ruiters was raped and brutally stabbed by her mother’s partner. Nutrodien “Nuts” Davids, 22, was gunned down in Redberry Street in Bonteheuwel. An Atlantis father, Brent Kruger, 32, was caught in teenage gang crossfire, while dropping off his toddler at creche. Democratic Alliance councillor for the greater Philippi area Xolile Gwangxu was shot in the head at a Philippi East community hall. A 28-year-old man died in a Mongrel’s gang shootout in Hanover Park. Abdurahmaan Petersen, 40, was shot in the head while sitting with his wife in the car in Turburg Walk, Hanover Park, on Eid. An 18-year-old Kenton Akiemdien was stabbed in the head while partying in Tafelsig. Fisantkraal Grade 7 pupil Jayden Sellidon, 15, was stabbed to death by a fellow pupil who had bullied him. A newlywed Parkwood couple Ashley Sauls, 30, and his wife Alicia, 27, were gunned down in Parkwood Avenue. Alleged leader of the Nice Time Kids in Lentegeur, Marwaan “Dinky” Desai, 45, was shot while he sat in his BMW X5 at the Howard Centre, Pinelands. His friend Shaheem Mohamed from Lansdowne was also killed. A 23-year-old father, Basier Byron Johannesen, was gunned down in Vlamboom Street in Bonteheuwel after he went there to buy dagga. Pakistani national Abdul Haseeb, a 23-year-old Elsies River businessman, was killed for his Audi and his body dumped on the N2 near Delft.  July Camron Britz, 14, was found raped and murdered in bushes in Slangkop, Ocean View. Her 19-year-old cousin was arrested. While at a sleepover at her friend’s house, Chimicka Cornberg, 18, was mysteriously shot while she slept in the top bunk of her friend’s bunk bed. A 52-year-old man died in the crossfire between the Americans and Mongrels at Plenty Court, Hanover Park. Alleged leader of the Junior Mafias in Eastridge, Junaid Arendse, 26, and his friend Tariq Davids, 28, were killed by an acquaintance in Malva Street, Eastridge. Liesel Smith, 44, was stabbed by burglars at her home in Wynberg. A man was shot dead in notorious Vlamboom Road, Bonteheuwel. Alleged Americans gangster known only as “Giffie”, was killed by a shot and a bashing in Downberg Road, Hanover Park. A  24-year-old man who robbed his neighbours died in a mob justice slaying in Delft South. In another instance of mob justice the body of man known to terrorise neighbours in Wallacedene, Kraaifontein, was found in a field. Delft couple Porche Frans, 18, and Randall Pick, 20, were shot when they took a short cut across a field in Roosendal. A 15-year-old boy known only as “Wade” was killed in Shepherd Court, Lavender Hill, when he knocked at a neighbour’s door and asked for bread. Hassiem Khan was shot in Vlamboom Street, Bonteheuwel. An 18-year-old was killed at the R300 footbridge in Wesbank, Delft. Two men were killed in Donegal Avenue, Ravensmead. Walden Hugo, 29, was found with multiple stab wounds in Scottsville. A four-year-old girl was shot in crossfire in Ntambanani, Street, Lower Crossroads. A 29-year-old man was shot in Sonata Street, Steenberg. Poo-thrower activist Thulani Zondani was stabbed to death in Khayelitsha. A 45-year-old woman was shot during a hijacking on Strandfontein Road in Ottery. A 16-year-old was shot in Bishop Lavis, as he walked home from court where he appeared on drug charges. Eliza Childsmith, 45, was shot in her home in Saldanha Street, Ruyterwacht. Taxi driver Kenneth Olyn, 35, was shot by gangsters in Carnation Street, Elsies River. Alfrenco de Jager, 39, died in a gang shoot-out at a Bishop Lavis house, owned by an alleged 28s gang member. A motorist shot a 34-year-old thief who tried to smash grab goods from his car on the corner of Jakkalsvlei Road and Valhalla Drive. Windemere Primary School pupil Ruben September, 11, died in a shoot-out in 14th Street Kensington near the Kukutown Informal Settlement, where he lived. Two Bonteheuwel teenagers who allegedly belonged to a new, unofficial start-up gang were shot dead in Mahogany Street. * Correct up until the end of last month. Weekend Argus