“We had a lot of ceremonies, rituals, initiations, and there was my involvement in church choirs and isicathamiya. So my life has always been in music,” he says. When Makhathini finished high school, he enrolled at the University of KZN to practise it formally. Though he studied jazz and is categorised under that genre, Makhathini feels he’s better suited under improvised music. “It’s up to the audience to decide. But for me what I am doing is improvised music, that’s my genre. Improvised as in I can borrow aesthetics from any genre and also deal with the unknown, pushing boundaries with things unfamiliar to me, eventually leading to a sound that has strong roots in African traditional music and jazz.” Minnie Dlamini jets off to France for her hen party When it comes to composition, the pianist says his influences vary from getting a melody while driving to “dreaming a song to life”. “It’s different with different songs, but most of the work I’ve been doing since my third album has been channelled through dreams and visions, and those kind of mediums. I think it’s linked into my calling as well, so I’ve since been paying a lot more attention to the inner voice.” Makhathini says the compositions come out in different ways but he feels the messages are sent through him. “I don’t think I’m really composing. It’s ingoma zabantu abaphansi, abadala (spiritual ancestors), and with some of the music, it’s like I’m remembering more than really composing and sitting down and planning what it is I’m going to write. Some of it is just reflecting my surroundings and our collective memory - I’ve recently written a piece for the students of 1976.” The King Fela mastermind says that at other times, he is just working on compositional techniques with his students, and a song forms from that. Since around 2008, Makhathini has been delivering a more deliberate message to his audience. When he first started, it was about fascinating audiences by showing off his playing technique and the excitement of moving to the City of Gold. His audience reaction has now shifted with him to the narrative of the message in his music. “People resonate with the music I play because it’s stuff that they also go through, and things that people question about identity, politics and the future of our people, and a lot of things about spirituality and people getting healed.” His third album, Listening to the Ground, is an album where healing sounds are explored. “Many musicians have been talking about healing themselves in the spaces and environments they are in. I did an experiment in 2013 with an audience, where I asked them to bring still water bottles - this is part of the gift given to me by my ancestors, healing through water - and I received a lot of positive feedback, but also some stigma came with it.” The Echoes of You composer believes the stigma was because of people not being used to African ways of doing things. “So people question whether it is witchcraft or some kind of cult. As musicians, we try to be more deliberate with the things we do, but also we need to educate our people about appreciating our ways of doing things, our ways of thinking and living.” Makhathini says part of his purpose is to cultivate the kind of audiences that will understand aspects of African music and improvisation. For his Jazz on the Lake performance on Sunday, the audience can expect to hear sounds from his new project, iKhambi (a cure or remedy). “What I have been exploring is how one can channel this kind of energy and healing power through a sonic experience. If anything, people can expect lots and lots of healing and an opening to channels of connecting with the unseen. I see this music as a medium for tapping into unseen realms and connecting to ancestry.” Makhathini will be on stage with a band of musicians he calls “magicians”. “People who come will definitely experience a lot of magic as well.”  The Star   @mane_mpi 