Yesterday, Uber general manager for sub-Saharan Africa, Alon Lits, said a suspect had been arrested and was expected to appear in court today. “We received confirmation from the investigating officer that the arrest was made this morning. “I don’t think it’s for us to share the details and the specifics of the investigation. And we would suggest that the police make comment in that regard, but we are taking comfort that an arrest has been made,” said Lits. But the Gauteng SAPS spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini was unable to confirm the arrest. He did, however, say that a suspect had appeared in the Roodepoort Magistrate’s Court yesterday
following an acid attack on another taxi driver on August 15. “The suspect was arrested because the victim traced the suspect, and the members of the community helped to have him arrested. The incident that took place on August 15 happened in Florida,” said Dlamini. At a media briefing held in Rosebank yesterday afternoon, Lits said Uber had engaged with the drivers who had been victims of acid attacks. “Positive steps forward are being taken, but at the end of the day, we need violence to be condemned in the strongest possible terms, and we need arrests to be made no matter what the crimes.” Lits said that following numerous attempts to meet Tiro’s family at the hospital, where he was being treated, arrangements had been made for him to receive trauma counselling. He told The Star that taxi intimidation seemed to be specific to Pretoria and Joburg, and that the rest of the country had not been affected. Tiro told The Star that he was called to meet the Uber management following yesterday’s media briefing but said he did not know anything about any information regarding an arrest having been made in connection with his case. Tiro’s family representative, who asked not to be named, told The Star that at this stage, the family have refrained from commenting on Tiro’s attack. According to Uber management, there is a Law Enforcement Response Team which works with police to support investigations to solve incidents.