Johannesburg - Yet another member of the mayoral committee in the City of Joburg has been axed. On Wednesday, Johannesburg City mayor Herman Masahaba announced his decision to fire the member of the mayoral committee (MMC) for economic development, Sharon Peetz, from the mayoral committee, on grounds of suspected misconduct. The federal executive of the Democratic Alliance has agreed to this move, he said. Peetz, said the mayor, will be referred to the party for consideration of further disciplinary processes in order to determine her culpability. During the course of a council meeting earlier this year, an allegation was levelled against Peetz that she had acted irregularly in arranging for a family member to accompany her on an official trip to Spain. Through a forensic investigation conducted at the time, it was determined that the city had not incurred any costs for the travel of the family member. It was therefore determined that the allegations levelled against Peetz at the time were without merit. “Recent evidence, however, has been brought to our attention that the proof of payment, between Peetz and the travel agent, which the councillor had provided to my office as proof that she had paid the travel agent, was allegedly falsified. Further forensic investigation has been undertaken into the proof of payment. It is stressed that the money concerned remains allegedly owed to the travel agent, and it remains the case that the city has not incurred any losses. “Through her actions, it is my belief that Peetz has misled myself, the council and the residents of Joburg,” said Mashaba. They mayor said he had made it clear that under his leadership, the city would not tolerate such conduct any longer. “Irrespective of one’s role in the city, and irrespective of your political affiliation, there will be accountability for wrongdoing.The comfort that I offer the residents of our city, is that for the first time, our residents will learn of such acts of misconduct and they will see action taken.” he added. While a decision is carefully considered for a new MMC of economic development to be appointed, MMC Dr Mpho Phalatse has agreed to act in the position. The ANC, has now called for the mayor to be fired alleging he covered up the fraud. ANC Joburg spokesperson Jolidee Matongo said that at an earlier council meeting the allegations again Peetz had been discussed. Matongo said the fraud had been uncovered when the travel agent sent an invoice to the city for payment. “Diligent officials noticed the fraud. The travel agent said that Peetz had instructed her to book her mother and pay them using the city’s accounts. Peetz, during the meeting denied the allegation. The mayor then secretly asked her to pay the agent for her relative's trip, which she did not do. It was only when the travel agent demanded money from the council that Mashaba fired her,” said Matongo. The mayor took the decision to fire her because he was just about to be exposed of having made an agreement with her cover up the gross misconduct by stealing taxpayers’ money, he added. “We are not impressed by the mayor’s publicity stunt. He pretends to be a man of integrity, yet he tried to cover up by agreeing with the councillor to pay back the money. We call on the mayor to stop down as he was part of the cover-up mission,” he concluded. In February this year, Mashaba fired the MMC for environmental and infrastructure services, Anthony Still, because they held different views on how to deal with allegations of corruption and fraud at City Power. @annacox