So said Ameera Conrad, curator of the successful student and Baxter Theatre production The Fall, on the conception of the show, which was awarded the prestigious Fringe First Award at this year’s Scotsman Awards. Presented weekly and designed to encourage performers to bring new work to Edinburgh, Scotland, in the spirit of adventure and experiment, the Scotsman Fringe First Awards celebrate the best new writing on the Fringe. In the production, seven UCT drama graduates share their experiences during the #RhodesMustFall, #FeesMustFall and subsequent student movements’ demonstrations in 2015 and 2016. “I think that when we started the show, we didn’t really know what to expect regarding awards or accolades. “Winning one of the first Scotsman Fringe First awards for 2017 is absolutely amazing for us. We feel very lucky to have our hard work rewarded,” Conrad said. The production tackles institutionalised racism, patriarchy, colourism, transphobia and class - all within the space of less than 90 minutes. The play is facilitated by Clare Stopford and curated by Conrad and Thando Mangcu, and the dynamic cast comprises Conrad, Mangcu, Oarabile Ditsele, Zandlie Madliwa, Sizwesandile Mnisi, Sihle Mnqwazana and Cleo Raatus. On presenting the award, The Scotsman’s chief theatre critic, Joyce McMillan, said: “What makes this show completely exceptional - not just its energy, not just the live footage that we see of this very recent, and indeed, continuing revolution in South African higher education, and not just the fantastic musical and movement content, which is just completely mind-blowing, beautiful - but also the density and the seriousness of the political arguments which these young people are being forced to address as such an early age.” Baxter chief executive and artistic director Lara Foot said the show had immediately struck a chord and caused a sensation at the Baxter Theatre, which is situated on UCT’s campus. “The play lifted a veil on the unspoken truth of so many thousands of students, their hardships, their realities, and the pain suffered by so many. “At the time of commissioning this work, I knew it would have an effect on the community of Cape Town and South Africa at large. What I was not expecting was how relevant this play is to the international community. We are delighted to share this important work with the audiences in Edinburgh,” Foot said.