These were the last words Dumisani Masilela spoke to his younger brother, Mbongeni, just before he went in for an operation after being shot in an attempted hijacking. News of the 29-year-old actor’s death broke early yesterday, plunging industry friends and fans into mourning. Masilela succumbed to his injuries after he tried to drive away as gunmen tried to hijack the car he was in on Wednesday night. Police spokesperson Kay Makhubele said the incident happened around 8pm in Tembisa, Ekurhuleni. “It is believed that three people in a Jeep blocked off their car and shot at the victim who was in a white VW Golf 7,” Makhubele said. Deputy Police Minister Bongani Mkongi visited the grieving family in Van Riebeeck Park yesterday to convey his condolences. “We came here as the Police Ministry to give hope and pray with the family that this tragedy is not only resting on them, but on all South Africans. If the family is hurt the whole country is hurt.” Mkongi promised the family that the police were following up all the leads to arrest the criminals. “We have the leads and we are going to arrest them. Wherever they are sitting now enjoying their liquor and drugs They must know the law is going to catch up with them.” Mbongeni Masilela said Dumi, as his brother was affectionately known, had told him something private while in the hospital and he knew that meant he was telling him to take care of their family. He said the family was thankful to the police for their help and knew that they would do everything in their power to help them. “We will do everything in our power to assist them (the police) to ensure justice is done. We are saddened and hurt, but we have to be strong for Dumisani. He was our big brother, our role model a son to umama nobaba. “We appreciate everything he did for us and we will be strong for mama, just as he was for the family.” The Masilela family were also reeling from the death of his aunt who died after hearing the news. The family also buried Dumi’s father last year. Before acting, Masilela made it into the Top 16 of Idols SA in 2012.  He was also a soccer star.