The inmates were part of a larger group that staged a protest over delays in the processing of parole application at the centre on July 2 by refusing to go back to their cells. The prison authorities charged them with mutiny and moved them to underground segregation cells in the Local Remand Correctional Centre located in the same complex as the main prison. They are currently facing an internal disciplinary action which is expected to begin late next month. They were seeking interim relief until completion of the disciplinary hearings. They launched their urgent application last Tuesday citing unlawful segregation detention in single cells which deprived them of participating in normal activities such as access to church and workshops. The application cited Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha, the national commissioner and the head of the centre, Mabote Tshele, as respondents. The inmates have been kept in segregation cells for 51 days, despite the department’s own regulations stating that segregation detention should not exceed seven days. However, in his order yesterday, Judge Neil Tuchten said the centre’s actions to move the inmates were justified even though the applicants’ lawyer, advocate Katherine Harding, argued that the authorities did not apply proper laws, saying they justified their action on the basis that the prisoners were a security risk. In the balance of convenience, the applicants are not being punished, they enjoy more freedom where they are now, in single cells, than other inmates in communal cells,” said Judge Tuchten. He said the allegations of deprivation should have been the main focus of the application which would have led to an investigation. In court papers that The Star has seen, which were filed by attorney Clare Ballard from Lawyers for Human Rights, she argued that the relocation of the applicants was flawed and it had not been fully explained to the inmates as the law required. She said the centre could only move sentenced inmates in three ways, separation, segregation and transfer, and the reasoning was vague in this matter. The department’s Act 111 of 1990 regulation 30 states that segregation “may only be enforced for a minimum period that is necessary and this period may not exceed seven days and that segregation may not be ordered as a form of punishment of a disciplinary measure”. The act also states that an inmate in segregation should get a daily medical check-up by a nurse or a psychological assessment by a psychiatrist, while the head of the centre should visit once a day. This, according to the applicants, has not been the case. In his replying affidavit Tshele denied that the inmates were deprived of any amenities or privileges. He said the Judicial Inspectorate had investigated the matter and it was found that they were “housed in a normal accommodation pending the outcome of the disciplinary inquiry”. In another urgent application in the same court yesterday, Edward Mbulane, an inmate at Brits’s Losperfontein Correctional Centre, won the case against the centre which he accused of unlawfully confiscating his personal laptop. Mbulane, a law student at Unisa, said the centre’s head had takenhis laptop in May saying he would install a computer hub with Unisa study programmes for inmates. However, this had never materialised, inconveniencing Mbulane and other inmates.
@lindilesifile