Thabethe’s campaign has been running for four years and stems from her personal experience of witnessing her mother being a victim of domestic abuse. Thabethe also launched the Thando Thabethe Women’s Day Netball Challenge, which takes place on the same day - on Wednesday, at the University of Johannesburg’s Soweto Campus. The aim of the netball challenge is to raise funds for the #MakeItStop campaign. Madonsela said she admired Thabethe’s work, especially because she used her brand to advance such an initiative. “Just admiring this young woman who is a celebrity and who is far too young to worry about the rest of the world, but she is using her platform to create a better world,” said Madonsela. WORTHY WOMEN: Thando Thabethe with her mother Bongi and Thul Madonsela. Picture: Matthews Baloyi  Women who have platforms can help to address the surge in women abuse and domestic violence and that it should not only focus on matters of personal interest, she added. “Violence against women should be everybody’s business We should tackle the issues of women who are voiceless in society. I think that’s why I admire Thando’s approach, because the women she is speaking on behalf of are often the voiceless as they are not seen as brands or reportable,” said Madonsela. “The truth is violence against women touches everyone regardless of class, race, nationality, sexual orientation or any other form of human diversity. “That is why organisations such as the Institute for Women’s Development are extremely important because they target the most vulnerable and neglected in society,” Madonsela said. Thabethe said honouring the former public protector was to celebrate women who have played significant roles in society with grace and strength. “It wasn’t just about the initiative or talking about all the bad stuff that has happened to women, but also celebrating women and that’s why we had her as our honoured guest,” said Thabethe. “I think she (Madonsela) is a formidable force and quietly so. If I could have a bit of her grace, just her ability to be strong Our power is easily misunderstood or taken for granted because we are women or feminine,” she added. Speaking about the need for launching a campaign that addresses woman and child abuse, Thabethe said it was seeing her mother fall victim to her father’s abuse. “My dad was an incredible man, he was amazing and such a good father and husband. But he had this flaw “It’s something I witnessed as a child. “But the whole idea (her campaign) is that it’s been running for so long, but I don’t want it to be about me or only my story, rather about other people’s experiences.” RED SIREN: Kelly Khumalo sang some of her songs for the women at the event. Picture: Matthews Baloyi  Singer and actress Kelly Khumalo was among the guests who attended both launches in support of Thabethe. “I have been a victim of domestic violence. And for someone like Thando to put together such an event all in the name of trying to fight the scourge, I am very proud of her and I’m very much in support of it and it’s why I’m here,” said Khumalo. Celebrities involved in the netball challenge on Women’s Day include Generations: The Legacy actress Manaka Ranaka; Selimathunzi presenter Khanya Mkangisa; presenter Mpho Maboi; presenter Lootlove; Idols judge Somizi Mhlongo; and DJ Fresh. @Zwane_2li2ls