Last year, a group of ANC supporters instituted the proceedings with the aim of having the outcomes of the party’s eighth provincial conference held in November 2015 nullified. Mchunu and those aligned to him lost the contest for positions to the current leadership led by current chairperson Sihle Zikalala. The case has become a proxy battle between two ANC factions ahead of the party’s elective conference in December. Advocate Greg Harpur told the court it was Mchunu who had started the call to convene the conference in 2015. The applicants are challenging the validity of the conference, saying it was held six months before the term of office of the then provincial executive committee (PEC) was to expire, and therefore breached the ANC constitution. Harpur said the applicants were merely disgruntled with the outcome of a process they took part in. He said the credentials report was presented and adopted at the conference and there was no complaint about the timing of the conference. Advocate Tembeka Ngcukaitobi, counsel for the applicants, argued that, as per the ANC constitution, an early conference could be convened when a third of all branches called for it. He said that by convening an early conference, the term of office of the leadership was effectively ended. Ngukaitobi argued that apart from the timing, the 2015 conference was of a “shambolic nature” as it was fraught with  irregularities. He cited an instance where a PEC member was issued with two tags, both for a voting delegate. There were also instances where branches were disqualified after failing the audit but allowed to take part in the conference. The arguments also centred on a tweet which published the results while votes were being counted. The applicants argued that the tweet was proof the election results were predetermined. But Harpur said the tweet was fake, mischievous, and its origins were unknown. Judges Charmaine Balton, Piet Koen and Mahendra Chetty reserved judgment. Addressing supporters outside court, Zikalala said the PEC was not worried about the judgment but only concerned about the unity of the ANC. Zikalala said some within the ANC were hellbent on destabilising the ANC in KZN ahead of the December conference. Extending an olive branch, Zikalala said: “Let us extend a hand and say comrades, you have taken us to court, but let us work together.”