McCallum suffered catastrophic injuries after his car caught alight on February 20, when he started it to go to work. Doctors fought hard to save him, even though he had burns over more than 70% of his body. On Thursday the decision was taken to turn off the life support machine. McCallum was born in Ireland on December 18, 1970 and came to South Africa as a young boy with his parents and two brothers. He was educated at Christian Brothers College, Boksburg, and studied journalism at Rhodes University in Grahamstown. He began his career on the Benoni City Times, before moving to the short-lived Sports Day and from there to The Star. He began as a freelance sub, moving rapidly through the ranks to the top table, before becoming  chief sub of Tonight, the national daily entertainment supplement published in The Star, Pretoria News, Cape Argus and Daily News. He then became revise sub of Independent Online (IOL) later becoming early morning copytaster for the group’s daily newspapers. At the time of his death, he had left the company and was working as a sub-editor at the Times Media Group. A man with a surfeit of talent and a zest for life almost unmatched in the current generation of journalists, McCallum combined a prodigious command of the English language with a technical wizardry and a lightning-quick wit. He had an almost encyclopaedic knowledge of the world about him, but in particular beer, of which he was not only a connoisseur but also an acclaimed writer. In his latter years, he displayed a talent for verse, art and photography which he shared on social media as he commuted to work by train. As befitting his heritage, McCallum was a fantastic raconteur with a big heart for the underdog and an unfailing ability and courage to literally speak truth to power when the more faint-hearted would have scurried for cover. He had a passion for his dogs, skateboarding and mountain biking. Above all, he was a loyal friend to many in journalism and out who were privileged to have known him. He was devoted to his sons Conor and Breandan. He leaves his former wife, Kelly Jane, his brother, the former chief sports writer of The Star, Kevin, and, his mother, Mary. Funeral arrangements have still to be made. The Star