Johannesburg Nine people have been killed and at least 11 injured in a horrific taxi crash in Walkerville early on Thursday morning.According to Netcare911 spokesperson Chris Botha, the accident happened on the Old Vereeniging Road (R82), south of Joburg. Reports from the scene indicate that a taxi veered across the road and slammed into a concrete bus stop.&quot; Exact details are still speculative and will form part of the police investigation, Botha said. Paramedics arrived at the scene and found that the taxi was ripped apart, accident debris and the injured commuters were spread over a large area.&quot; After the injured were triaged, it was found that nine people died on impact, two were in a critical condition while four people sustained serious injuries, he said.Botha added that paramedics had spoken to the driver while transporting him. He claimed something happened with the vehicle in front of him and he swerved, losing control of the taxi.ER24 spokesperson Werner Vermaak confirmed that a further five commuters sustained minor to moderate injuries. At this stage, it appears no other vehicle was involved in the collision. In a separate incident on Thursday, one child was killed and five injured when a light motor vehicle crashed into a tree on New Modder Road in Benoni.ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said paramedics, with another service, had arrived on the scene and found the wrecked vehicle on the side of the road, up against a large tree. Six children were lying outside the vehicle. Paramedics immediately assessed the patients and found that one, believed to be 14 years old, had sustained fatal injuries.&quot; Unfortunately, nothing could be done for the child and he was declared dead on the scene.&quot; The five other boys were assessed by paramedics. Two were in a critical condition while the three others had sustained moderate injuries, he explained.Meiring said paramedics had treated the patients and provided the critically injured with advanced life support. Once stable, the patients were transported to Sunshine Hospital in Boksburg for urgent treatment. Witnesses stated that the driver had apparently tried to overtake a taxi.&quot; He then lost control of the vehicle and crashed into the tree, ejecting the children from the vehicle.&quot; The driver then apparently climbed out of the vehicle, hailed a taxi and fled the scene. @Lanc_02The Star