Durban – One of the four men accused of beating up three teenagers and forcing them to drink a poisonous concoction at a Bluff tattoo parlour is also apparently a wanted man in Ireland for the murder of a member of a drug cartel in 2014. This emerged during the men’s bail application in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. Neville Peter van der Westhuizen stood in the dock with his three co-accused – Brandon Ashley Petersen, Jaun Richard Elliott and Leonard Ackerman – while Magistrate Mahomed Motala listened to evidence that surfaced during the initial stages of the investigation. They are accused of attacking four teenagers and killing one of them at a tattoo parlour on February 24. The men alleged the teens had stolen a cellphone that was on charge at the time. The four are accused of locking the boys inside the tattoo parlour, assaulting them and only releasing them the following morning. One of the youngsters died soon after the incident. On Wednesday, the State argued that bail for Van der Westhuizen be denied because the case was currently under investigation by Interpol. The State argued that when Van der Westhuizen was profiled for this matter, it was established there was a warrant out for his arrest from the Fugitive Extradition Desk. However, it was not clear if any extradition measures had been undertaken. It was also a point of argument that bail against Petersen be denied as he had a number of previous cases against him. He was found guilty of assault in 2001, attempted murder in 2001, and house robbery, housebreaking and animal cruelty. On February 24, it is alleged that Petersen instructed Elliott to tie the deceased on to an apparatus by his feet and he and Van der Westhuizen punched and kicked the youngster. The court heard that Petersen reportedly pulled down his pants and showed the deceased his genitals. He then threatened the youngsters that Ackerman would penetrate them with his penis. However, none of the youngsters was sexually assaulted. Elliott and Ackerman were granted bail of R1 000 each. They are expected to appear in court next week while Petersen and Van der Westhuizen are scheduled to appear later this month for the bail application to continue. Speaking to the Daily News outside court, one of the victims’ mothers said her son had called her saying they were being beaten and were going to die. The woman said she rushed to where her son said they were being held. Her son was taken to hospital, while the deceased managed to walk to a friend’s house nearby where he died. A relative of one of the youngsters who survived said the teen was living in fear. She said he had a damaged kidney and had no feeling in one of his legs. Daily News 