Johannesburg – At least 15 children were injured on Monday morning when a taxi and light motor vehicle collided at the Beyers Naude and CR Swart Road intersection in Randpark Ridge. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said when paramedics, along with various other services, arrived on the scene, they found the taxi and light motor vehicle on the side of the road. "The entire front and side of the taxi had been completely smashed open. "Several children were found either seated on the sidewalk or walking around on the scene," he said. Meiring explained that paramedics assessed the patients and found that approximately 15 children, aged between 4 and 6, had sustained minor to moderate injuries. "The driver of the light was found to have sustained moderate injuries and was trapped in her vehicle, which lay on its side. "Rescue services used the jaws-of-life equipment to free the woman from the vehicle," he said. Once freed, paramedics treated the patients and thereafter transported them to various provincial hospitals for urgent treatment. Meiring added that the exact cause of the collision is not yet known but local authorities were on the scene for further investigations. In a separate crash on Sunday, one person was killed three others were injured in a collision along President Paul Kruger Street in Bloemfontein. Netcare911 spokesperson Chris Botha said when paramedics arrived on scene, they found debris and the twisted frames of the vehicle consistent with that of a high impact collision, littering the roadway. "After triaging the injured, it was found that one person died on scene due to the extensive injuries sustained, one person was seriously injured while two miraculously escaped with minor injuries," he said Botha said the exact detail to the crash and preceding events is still speculative and will form part of the South African Police investigation. In third collision, four people were left injured after a light motor vehicle collided with another in the early hours of yesterday morning, on the R28 near Randfontein. "ER24 paramedics arrived on the scene at approximately 2am, and found both wrecked vehicles in the middle of the road. Both vehicles had sustained a large amount of damage in the collision. "Upon closer inspection, paramedics discovered four patients, from one of the light motor, walking around on the scene," Meiring said. Paramedics assessed the patients and found that four had sustained moderate injuries in the collision. The patients were treated for their injuries and were thereafter transported to various hospitals in the area for further treatment. Also on Sunday morning six people were injured when a light motor vehicle rolled off the R501 in Potchefstroom. Meiring said that paramedics had found a light motor vehicle lying on its roof on the side of the road. "Several people were found either lying or seated around the vehicle. Paramedics assessed the patients and found that six people had sustained injuries ranging from minor to serious," he said. Meiring said all the patients were treated for their injuries, and the seriously injured provided with advanced life support interventions. Once the patients had been treated, they were transported to Potchefstroom Provincial Hospital for further treatment. "It's understood that the driver lost control of the vehicle, causing it to roll multiple times and as a result the passengers were ejected," he explained. Investigations into each of the crashes has been launched by the local authorities.  ilanit.chernick@inl.co.za  The Star