Accused Tyler Maart, 20, appeared at the Muizenberg Magistrates’ Court on Monday to apply for bail. The State asked Maart to disclose whether he had any previous convictions. When he refused, Magistrate Yusuf Kamedien revealed he had two previous assault cases against him. Details of the cases were not disclosed. Prosecutors are set to prove that on February 11, Maart beat his girlfriend, Verity Engel, 31, until she was unconscious at her home in Capricorn. He later chased after her in the street, but turned back when a police officer, who is their neighbour, spotted him. The cop allegedly found Maart inside Verity’ s home, holding a knife. The couple have a four-month-old baby, Jeremiah, while Verity, who is a divorcee, has two other children. The mother had to undergo reconstructive surgery last week after her cheekbone, eye socket, lip and jaw were damaged. The operation – staples in her head and a metal plate in her cheek – was a success, but Verity is preparing to have plastic surgery. Verity said: "I also have a basal skull fracture." On Monday, a brave Verity, surrounded by friends, faced her alleged attacker in court, while Maart was supported by his mother, and a girlfriend who is pregnant with his child. Verity claims Maart was cheating on her. Magistrate Kamedien was stern in his approach to Maart, likening the case to that of disgraced paralympic athlete Oscar Pistorius, who shot and killed his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp on Valentine’s Day in 2013. Pistorius is currently serving a six-year sentence after being found guilty of murder. Maart’s family indicated that they are willing to pay R500 for bail, but Kamedien wasn’t impressed. The magistrate, referring to Maart as Oscar and Verity as Reeva, asked the family: “Is that what Reeva’s life is worth?” He added the State had no guarantee that Maart’s life would be safe from angry community members, who could take the law into their own hands. Verity told the Daily Voice she had handed in bloodied clothing to the State prosecutor which cops failed to remove from her home. “After I was discharged from hospital, I found his bloodied top and mine and the baby’s bib in the baby’s washing basket which means he undressed me after the attack,” she said. “I am currently in a lot of pain, but I want justice to take it course. He thought he killed me, but I am here to tell my story.” Maart, who is being held at Pollsmoor Prison, will return to court on March 16 for his bail application. Daily Voice