Johannesburg – The Gauteng Health Department will spend R6 million to transfer up to 763 psychiatric patients from NGOs to suitable medical facilities identified by the state. Health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa on Wednesday gave an update on the Life Healthcare Esidimeni crisis, saying 63 patients had already been relocated to hospitals within the province, as per the recommendations made by the health ombudsman, Professor Malegapuru Makgoba, early last month. With only nine days left for the department to meet the 45-day deadline set by Makgoba, Ramokgopa said the department had made headway in the process of removing patients from the 27 unlicensed NGOs that were identified by the ombudsman. Of the 27 NGOs, five were shut down. Relocations had since been completed at two NGOs. Up to 20 NGOs were still outstanding. The MEC said private hospitals identified thus far that would receive psychiatric patients included the Clinix Selby Park Hospital in the Joburg CBD and Life Esidimeni Baneng Care Centre in Robertville, Roodepoort. Selby Park Hospital is said to be the biggest private hospital in the country, with 642 beds. Wards have been tailored to care for acute psychiatric patients. “We will spend R6m on the transfer process. The national Department of Health has also been assisting and we are using the Gauteng health services such as the EMS ambulances that are available to transport the patients,” Ramokgopa said. The cost to relocate the patients, she said, was fixed and would not escalate with time. Meanwhile, the state will also pay the private medical facilities R495 a day to care for each patient. “We have gone through the relevant procurement processes and this is the full amount which will include the upkeep of patients, washing, cleaning them, and for their medical support and occupational therapy services,” said Ramokgopa. She said a bed for a patient who had an acute illness in a public hospital was far more expensive than in the private sector. Ramokgopa, who was joined by Mental Health Review Board acting chairperson Trevor Bogoshi, Selby Park Hospital’s general manager Zabair Coovadia and Clinix Group deputy chief executive Dr Dumani Kula, also highlighted that family members of the patients had already been informed and had been able to see their loved ones, adding that social workers were struggling to contact some family members. “We will stop at nothing to track down the loved ones of these patients,” Ramokgopa said. In the meantime, the department has suspended seven officials pending disciplinary hearings. The Star