 Johannesburg - The Cities of Joburg (CoJ) and Ekurhuleni have decided only to partially lift water restrictions following a decision by the Department of Water and Sanitations (DWS) to officially lift water restrictions on Tuesday. The decision was gazetted by the department on Monday. The CoJ said the Joburg Metro Police Department had so far issued a total of 665 fines while the City of Ekurhuleni had issued a total of 45 300 fines, mostly to residential and businesses – totalling to a whopping R1.7 million. Nico de Jager, CoJ Member of Mayoral Committee for Environment and Infrastructure Services Department, said this was being done “in effort to promote a culture of water conservation”. “The City of Joburg welcomes the decision by the Department of Water and Sanitation to lift water supply restrictions in Gauteng municipalities. “However, South Africa remains a water scarce country and the City of Joburg remains a net importer of water. We urge all water users to maintain vigilance in conserving this scarce resource,” de Jager said. He said that the risk of demand outstripping supply in the intervening period between now and the commissioning of Phase 2 of the Lesotho Highlands Project (2025) remains a real threat. “According to the 2009 Phase 2 feasibility report, the full yield is expected to be utilised by approximately 2030. “Therefore the City will, in an effort to maintain a culture of water conservation, only partially lift Level-2 water restrictions in accordance with Water Services By-law,” he explained. De Jager said this meant that on an annual basis, between 6am and 6pm during September 1 and March 31, and between 8am and 4pm from April 1 to August 31, “all consumers are prohibited from watering and irrigating their gardens” and “all consumers are prohibited from using a hosepipe to clean paved areas and driveways with municipal water”. “The implementation of by-law enforcement is crucial for Joburg to be a City that works. “I have been assured that Joburg Water will continue to remain in contact with stakeholders to educate them about water conservation, to disseminate information and respond to feedback,” he said. “Water saving must become part of our lifestyle. The water conservation measures implemented as a result of the restrictions must become the norm. “Residents are urged to keep on using greywater for watering gardens and flushing toilets; to report leaks and bursts and install water saving devices,” de Jager stressed. “The success of our interventions depend on all of us working together to ensure that our taps do not dry up in future,” he added City of Ekurhuleni spokesperson Themba Gadebe also confirmed that despite the DWS decision, restrictions were still in place for now. “We have eased restrictions but have not lifted it as of yet. We have relaxed water rationing which means that water that was turned off in areas during certain parts of the day, we no longer be rationed or turned off. “The restrictions will be lifted once the Council has approved it,” he said. DWS spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said that the Integrated Vaal River, which includes 14 dams which mainly serve Gauteng, was above 95% while the Vaal Dam was sitting just below 106% full. Both cities said that consumers who contravened the Water Services By-law’s would continue to be fined and urged residents to report those who are doing so. @Lanc_02   ilanit.chernick@inl.co.za  The Star