Johannesburg – "We have been waiting decades for houses, enough is enough, our patience is gone!” These were the words of Damon Visser, who is one of nearly a thousand Reiger Park residents who protested on Thursday over service delivery issues, including lack of housing, unemployment and high crime rates. Hundreds of angry residents marched through Reiger Park and parts of Boksburg using cement blocks, glass, burning tyres, rubble, poles and stones to block the streets. “We are shut down, no one has gone to work and no one has gone to school. Unless they tell us today that they are fixing the problems here, we will carry on,” Visser said. Another resident, Channon Tarentaal, said he had lived in Reiger Park for 40 years and had been waiting for a house for more than two decades. “We are voting for what? They give houses to the black people and the white people, and we the coloureds are forgotten." “They only remember us during the elections, and then it’s empty promises. We don’t want politicians here anymore, we will not vote,” he said. Tarentaal accused the police of not being able to handle the crime and drugs in the area, which were destroying their children. He also called on the government for more employment opportunities. “This will stop our people from turning to crime and drugs.” The group said they began protesting at 2am, and police had shot at them with rubber bullets “for chanting”. “Several people were hurt, including a young boy who was shot seven times with rubber bullets. He’s in hospital now,” said one woman who identified herself only as Bernadette. “We are not being violent, we just can’t keep living like animals, it’s not right – we need the government to hear us,” she said. Later in the morning, the large crowd charged through the streets of Boksburg where a tense stand-off between them and the police took place at the Boksburg Civic Centre. The Ekurhuleni metro police department insisted that the group could not enter the building despite several people trying to so. Tape was put up and the crowd were warned not to cross it. However, it was broken several times as the crowd tried to close in, chanting, singing and holding placards saying “Genoeg is genoeg!” (Enough is enough) and “We want houses now!” Ekurhuleni member of the mayoral committee for human settlements Lesiba Mpya addressed the protesters, saying they were a part of a new housing project in the area. “Your wait for houses is coming to an end. I assure you that your housing opportunity is coming,” he said. Many residents accused the MMC of lying and shouted at him to “stop playing with us”. “We are sick and tired, how many times have we asked you for a house?” shouted a man. “Come and see how we live!” screamed a woman. In response, Mpya said he would visit the area on Monday, to which some of the crowd cheered. There were several instances where glass bottles were thrown at police and metro officers. However, they remained calm in the face of the furious and excitable crowd. Some people were shot with rubber bullets after they tried to burn down the ward councillor’s house. Metro police spokesperson Kobeli Mokheseng confirmed that five people had been injured by rubber bullets. @Lanc_02 The Star