Joburg City Parks and Zoo (JCPZ) unveiled the first set of close circuit television (CCTV) cameras being rolled out across the City at Rhodes Park. CCTV is being installed in parks and cemeteries across the City of Joburg in partnership with the Development Bank of SA (DBSA) and Crebus, which will see 88 outdoor facilities being fitted with a 24-hour surveillance system, to combat opportunistic crime and to assist in monitoring service delivery standards. Yolanda Goso, who lives in the area and spends a lot of her time “chilling out” at the park, said she feels a lot safer since the CCTV has been installed . “Before it was dangerous, you couldn’t come here alone or relax. Now I see a lot of people and families enjoying themselves and coming “It’s a great park and I wouldn’t ever want it to close,” she said. Another park user, Kelly Howell said she’s been walking dogs for eight months at Rhodes Park and was thrilled to hear the news. “I’m glad to see that the people are taking the park back and I feel a lot safer knowing that there is security. “I grew up in Kensington and I use to come here five times a week and I’m glad to be back,” she said. At the unveiling, Member of the Mayoral Committee for Community Development Nonhlanhla Sifumba said this was a “groundbreaking milestone in our quest” to make public spaces in the city, safer. “The pilot initiative sponsored by DBSA, and facilitated by Crebus, came about after the JCPZ identified that ad-hoc patrols by policing structures including the Rangers, Joburg Metro Police and SA Police Services were in adequate in combating opportunistic crime, in public spaces,” she said Sifumba added that this new monitoring system would be enhanced through adequate lighting, more integrated security and policing, visible and regular police blitz operations and greater residential involvement. Ward Councillor for the area Carlos da Rocha said this area was full of heroes. “Residents have been rallying to save the park by walking their dogs, having picnics and taking the park into their own hands. “We own this park and we are adamant with the help of residents, the private and public sector and community to make this park the safest park in Joburg,” da Rocha said. Crebus representative Rowland Moss emphasised that without funds, the safety and cleanliness of our parks can’t be ensured. He explained that some of the cameras being used included infrared cameras, bullet cameras and thermal cameras which can pick up heat signatures in thick brush. “The camera feeds will be monitored 24-hours a day and seven days a week. The cameras have night vision and are also tamper proof,” he said. On the night of October 17 2015 a 12-man gang killed two men and raped a woman at Rhodes Park. The two men and their wives were walking at the park when they were confronted by the suspects who were armed with knives and what was eventually revealed as toy guns. The men robbed the couples, tied up both men and threw them into a dam at the park. One of their wives was then raped. Three men, Edmore Ndlovu, Thabo Nkala and Mduduzi Mathibela were arrested for the crimes. Despite pleading not guilty on the charges of robbery with aggravating circumstances, rape, and murder, Nkala later admitted to the rape and murders. In October last year a fourth person was arrested in Zimbabwe. @Lanc_02 The Star