“Thirty-five people sustained serious to light injuries and were transported to hospital, with one person being in critical condition,” said Ekurhuleni Disaster and Emergency Management Services spokesperson William Ntladi. “It’s believed heavy mist was obscuring the vision of the motorists. Patients were triaged and taken to several hospitals across Ekurhuleni,” he said. The accident took place at about 6.30am, closing off all lanes on the N12 East, and was only cleared in the early afternoon. It spanned a large area, with glass and debris spread across the freeway. Ntladi said several trucks, minibus taxis, bakkies and at least 17 cars were involved in the pile-up. Initially it was reported that one person had been killed in the incident, but this was later denied. A motorist involved in the crash, who asked to remain anonymous, said it was as “if all the lanes had caved into one” as cars, trucks and minibus taxis collided. “It was misty and I don’t think everyone was keeping their following distance. I was hit from behind by a truck and I went into another car in front of me. “There was a car about two or three metres away from mine that was squashed and on fire. I’m lucky to be alive,” she said. The witness added that at the time, she didn’t register what was going on or what
to do. “I was scared and I couldn’t understand what was happening. There was a lot of confusion, especially when I was hit from behind. “I almost felt like I had lost control of my vehicle and couldn’t stop myself from hitting other vehicles. I was being pushed and there was nothing I could do. My brakes wouldn’t stop me and I hit the cars,” she said. “I felt like I was in the scene from a movie. I have some cuts and bruises, but thank God I’m okay,” the woman added. At least two cars caught alight in the pile-up, two trucks veered off the highway onto the grass embankment, and several cars overturned. Investigations are still taking place to determine the exact cause of the crash. @Lanc_02 The Star