The beauty queen says what had incensed her even more was that the incident took place on Human Rights Day, a day meant to remind people of South Africa’s turbulent past and subsequent democracy. Bokang, who is married to soccer star Siphiwe Tshabalala, took to social media on Tuesday, and posted a photo of the couple. She said she was driving from her salon when a couple in a car behind her lost their cool and allegedly started hurling racist insults and swearing at her. #PART 1 So this is how my Human Rights Day Started. Driving from my salon early in the morning these two individuals were driving behind me,the robot was open for us but cars from the different direction where still crossing so the most logical thing is to wait and then pass but no not for this couple behind me, the started screaming and hooting, I eventually crossed over and so did they and I decided to move to the yellow lane and get out of the way and even let them pass coz clearly I was on the road with a bunch of idiots and I was like " what is wrong with you" and he screamed " YOU'RE A FUCKEN MONKEY, MONKEYS CANT DRIVE, FUCK YOU,YOU MONKEY" and he started making monkey sounds. I got so mad... Today is Human Rights day and we as Africans are still being called monkeys by some white people... I followed them and I blocked the whole road, got out of my car,stood right in front of their car and told them they can run me off if they want to but I will not be moving out till they get out and apologize...I told them I don't care about the zap signs and F words or even their road rage but I will not tolerate racism and say it's ok to be called a Monkey because I'm black... I chose to cause a scene n didn't care that I'm a public figure and it might not fit in with being a so called Miss SA no this is about my fore-fathers, my grandparents, my parents and what they've been through for us to get this freedom... You biggest part is that this is about my son and the fact that these two people will have children and teach them that Africans are monkeys and their kids will say it to my son some day... We can't keep tolerating such nonsense for the sake of peace... The 1960s were characterised by systematic defiance and protest against apartheid and racism across the country. On March 21 1960, the community of Sharpeville and Langa townships, like their fellow compatriots across the country, embarked on a protest march to march protest against pass laws. The apartheid police shot and killed 69 of the protesters at Sharpeville, many of them shot while fleeing. Many other people were killed in other parts of the country... And still this couple called me a MONKEY??? A post shared by Bokang Montjane-Tshabalala (@bokang_m) on Mar 21, 2017 at 4:10am PDT “Early in the morning two individuals were driving behind me. The robot was open for us, but cars from the different direction were still crossing so the most logical thing is to wait and then pass. But no, not for this couple behind me, they started screaming and hooting,” she wrote on her Instagram account. “I eventually crossed over and so did they, and I decided to move to the yellow lane and get out of the way and even let them pass cause clearly I was on the road with a bunch of idiots and I was like “what is wrong with you” and he screamed 'YOU’RE A F**** N MONKEY, MONKEYS CAN’T DRIVE, F*** YOU,YOU MONKEY' and he started making monkey sounds." PART 2 We commemorate Human Rights Day to reinforce our commitment to the Bill of Rights as enshrined in our Constitution. One of the rights is: Human dignity – everyone has inherent dignity and have their dignity respected and protected. And mine was violated today. I made them apologize in front of all the people on the road because there was no way this black african and so proud of being it woman was going to allow them get away with it, not even the forced apology makes it ok or a little better,their mindset is what we need to fix... I refuse after so many years of being a democratic country to be subjected to such... Today 21st March is to remind South Africans about the sacrifices that accompanied the struggle for the attainment of democracy in South Africa. May we love, respect and protect what our people died for... Let not their deaths be in vain. Please repost this until someone recognizes who these individuals... LETS NAME AND SHAME THEM!!! Happy Human Rights Day... May we never forget... Her name is South South Africa and she has been through hell to get where she is and may we PROTECT her with all we have...🇿🇦🇿🇦🇿🇦 #MyCountry #MySouthAfrica #MyAfrica #MyRight #MyDemocracy #AfrikaBorwaLeratoLaka A post shared by Bokang Montjane-Tshabalala (@bokang_m) on Mar 21, 2017 at 4:11am PDT Bokang followed, blocking the road with her car, and told the couple she won’t move until they say sorry, because “there was no way this black African was going to allow them get away with it”. Daily Voice