JOHANNESBURG – Lions boss Johan Ackermann is taking no chances against the Kings. That much is clear from the team he has picked to tackle Deon Davids’ side in Port Elizabeth in a round five Super Rugby match on Saturday afternoon. No less than seven Springboks have been included in the starting team, with No 8 and captain Warren Whiteley set to lead the team for the 50th occasion. The Kings’ improved performances of late, and the inclusion of some seasoned operators in their team, have no doubt given Ackermann and Co much to think about regarding the make-up of their side. Davids’ men pushed the Sharks all the way in Durban last weekend, eventually losing 19-17, but they could just as easily have won, while they’ve already beaten the Sunwolves (37-23 in Singapore) and were edged by the Jaguares (39-26). Their only heavy defeat so far came against the Stormers (41-10). It is the strongest possible team Ackermann could have picked following a slew of injuries to key players following last weekend’s win against the Reds. Utility back Jaco van der Walt has a dislocated foot and will be out of action for eight weeks, Lionel Mapoe has a fracture in his hand and will see a specialist on Friday to determine what needs to be done to get him fit again, while props Dylan Smith and Johannes Jonker are also casualties from the Reds win. Smith has unfortunately hurt the same shoulder that kept him out of action in the latter stages of last year and earlier this year and will require surgery, ruling him out for four months, while Jonker, the new recruit from Border, is concussed and might be ready for the Sharks next weekend. With Springbok Julian Redelinghuys (broken neck) already out of action, the Lions’ prop depth is being tested to the full. For this week’s match, Ackermann is hoping Sti Sithole and Hencus van Wyk – both off-season recruits – will provide the necessary impact from the bench, while hooker Akker van der Merwe and scrumhalf Dillon Smit also get an opportunity in place of the rested Robbie Coetzee and Ross Cronjé respectively. Twenty-three year-old Sithole is a former SA Under-20 loosehead prop who’s played for the Stormers and Kings, while Van Wyk (25) has previously turned out for the Bulls.  The Lions are coming off a resounding win against the Reds and will want to keep the momentum going ahead of the Sharks’ visit next week, while the Kings will be desperate to build on their strong showing against the Sharks. Flyhalf Lionel Cronjé will lead them on Saturday in the absence of regular skipper Schalk Ferreira, who has been ruled out of action for three months with a bicep injury. “Lionel has been a central part of our leadership group until now, and he’s played some good rugby,” said Davids. “He’s been around for a long time and understands what is expected of him.” Filling Ferreira’s boots will be Schalk van der Merwe, who’ll be up against his former teammates, while at hooker, Kurt Haupt gets an opportunity ahead of Michael Willemse. Malcolm Jaer also makes a return to the team. Teams For Port Elizabeth Southern Kings: Malcolm Jaer, Makazole Mapimpi, Berton Klaasen, Waylon Murray, Alshaun Bock, Lionel Cronjé (captain), Louis Schreuder, Ruaan Lerm, Andisa Ntsila, Chris Cloete, Wilhelm van der Sluys, Irne Herbst, Ross Geldenhuys, Kurt Haupt, Schalk van der Merwe. Bench: Michael Willemse, Chris Heiberg, Justin Forwood, Tyler Paul, Stefan Willemse, Johan Steyn, Pieter-Steyn de Wet, Luzuko Vulindlu. Lions: Andries Coetzee, Madosh Tambwe, Harold Vorster, Rohan Janse van Rensburg, Courtnall Skosan, Elton Jantjies, Faf de Klerk, Warren Whiteley (captain), Ruan Ackermann, Jaco Kriel, Franco Mostert, Andries Ferreira, Ruan Dreyer, Malcolm Marx, Jacques van Rooyen. Bench: Akker van der Merwe, Sti Sithole, Hencus van Wyk, Lourens Erasmus, Kwagga Smith, Dillon Smit, Jacques Nel, Sylvian Mahuza. @jacq_west