This occurred when police swooped into the area and burnt more than 60 shacks believed to belong to the illegal miners, who are also known as zama zamas. The police went to the area to clamp down on this illegal activity. The zama zamas allegedly used the shacks for storage and as a refinery for the gold dust that they get from the disused shafts. As the shacks went up in flames, gas filters that the zama zamas use while underground exploded. The police and miners also exchanged gunfire. Officers also confiscated mining equipment, several bags of gold dust and an illegal firearm. The raid came in the wake of 14 miners who were shot and killed in the area over the weekend. The miners died in what is believed to be an ongoing battle between rival zama zama groups made up of various nationalities. On Wednesday’s police operation was conducted by various police units, including the Flying Squad. The zama zamas, however, were unfazed by the raid and vowed to rebuild the shacks and continue with their illegal operations. One of the illegal miners, Paulos Sithole, 36, said he depended on the illegal mining to support his family. “I will be back underground by tonight. I do not have a job and depend on this business in order to feed my family,” he said. The Mozambican said he arrived in South Africa in 1992 looking for a job. Five years later, he got involved in illegal mining. “I have been struggling to get a job since I came here. I had to join this business so that I can support my family,” he pointed out. Another miner, Lucky Sibande, 28, said that without illegal mining, he wouldn’t survive. “We don’t have a problem with the police but we wish that instead of burning down our properties, they would guard us. “People have been killing each other and all the police care about is burning down our things,” Sibande said. The man from Newcastle in KwaZulu-Natal said he supports his six-year-old daughter and wife with the money he makes from the trade. He said he makes about R500 a day. “By tomorrow (Thursday), we will be back to do our work,” Sibande said. The illegal miners said they weren’t going anywhere, nor were they going to stop what they were doing. They also said they would start rebuilding the razed shacks as soon as the police left. “If they want us to leave this area, the police will have to come and burn every day. Otherwise, we will continue,” said another miner, who declined to be identified. The man said he used to be a thief, and illegal mining was a way to stay out of trouble. “I don’t want to go back to robbing people. This is the best I can do to make money. Now I am stuck; I don’t know what to do,” he said. SAPS spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said 14 suspects were arrested and would appear in the Benoni Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. The Star