He challenged the entities’ top decision-makers to engage in an exercise of introspection to critically examine the city’s performance. Mashaba also announced the new chairpersons of the entities. City Power: Lael Bethlehem Bethlehem has extensive experience working on the boards of various institutions, including two international NGOs. Pikitup: Bhekisisa Shongwe Shongwe has acquired extensive business experience as an accountant, financial manager and senior executive in major corporations. Johannesburg Market: Doris Dondur Dondur has extensive experience in the public sector and corporate governance. She has served in the office of the auditor-general as the auditor for Gauteng and has previously served on the board of City Power as chairperson. Johannesburg Property Company: Pat Corbin Corbin possesses a wealth of business knowledge and experience as a former president of the Johannesburg Chamber of Commerce and Industry; chairperson of the Johannesburg Tourism Association; chief executive of the African International Airways, a cargo airline; and chief executive of the Industrial Confirming House, among others. Johannesburg Roads Agency: Sipho Tshabalala Tshabalala is an entrepreneur with a passion for youth development and tourism. Among other successful businesses, he is the owner of the Vilakazi Restaurant in Soweto. Johannesburg Water: Getty Simelane Simelane has over the past 18 years held senior executive positions specialising in human resources in the telecommunications, investment and fast-moving consumer goods sectors. Metropolitan Trading Company: Leapeetswe Molotsane Molotsane served as chief executive of Fedics from 1999 to 2003, chief executive of Telkom in 2005 and operations group executive at Transnet. Metrobus: Yolisa Mashilwane Mashilwane has more than 15 years’ experience in the transport industry, with 11 years' managerial experience in public transport planning and operations, while overseeing the planning and implantation of transport systems and projects for Ekurhuleni and the City of Joburg, and was one of the founding members of the City of Joburg’s department of transport and part of the planning and implementation of the Rea Vaya bus system in Joburg. Joburg City Theatres: Nkopane Maphiri Maphiri has served as a ministerial committee adviser on broadcasting policy, which led to the Broadcasting Act of 1999, and as a board member of AMARC, an international NGO contributing to the development of community and participatory radio. Johannesburg City Parks and Zoo: Edgar Neluvhalani Neluvhalani has 26 years' professional work experience in the NGO and public sector as an expert in project management of small to large projects at local and national levels. He has also published a number of papers on the environment, notably contributing to the education sector. Johannesburg Development Agency: Dawood Coovadia Coovadia is a member of various professional institutions, including SA Institute of Management, SA Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, Institute of Management Consultants and Institute of Internal Auditors. Johannesburg Housing Company: Bhekisipho Twala Twala has served in leading academic positions. He brings a wealth of leadership experience and innovation. The Star