Johannesburg Chaos reigned outside the Charlotte Maxeke Academic hospital in Johannesburg, where parts of the foyer roof have collapsed.It is believed that between 10 and 12 people were busy with renovations on the roof when it suddenly collapsed. According to Joburg Emergency Services spokesperson Nana Radebe two people have been rescued while two others were currently trapped under the rubble. Rescue workers leaving so mercifully I don't think there are any people under the rubble. pic.twitter.com/vtRyZ83kpZRescue workers leaving so mercifully I don't think there are any people under the rubble. pic.twitter.com/vtRyZ83kpZ Jack Bloom (@JackBloomDA) March 2, 2017</blockquote> &quot;We have our urban rescue team on site that is currently looking through the rubble to locate the two people that are trapped,&quot; Radebe said. A by stander, who did not want to be named said it was around 2:30pm when he heard the loud crash. &quot;I had walked a few meters away from the door when I heard a loud crash. It was at the site of the construction that was happening,&quot; he said. The devastation at Charlotte Maxeke Hospital I warned years ago that the hospital was structurally unsound. pic.twitter.com/6z7uTGLExAThe devastation at Charlotte Maxeke Hospital I warned years ago that the hospital was structurally unsound. pic.twitter.com/6z7uTGLExA Jack Bloom (@JackBloomDA) March 2, 2017</blockquote> The entrance of the hospital was filled with emergency vehicles and personnel that are working to clear the area. A man was heard asking security personnel what would happen as his father was due for an operation today. Hospital staff could only ask him to move towards the casualty area where people were standing with anxious looks on their faces and being directed nursing staff.Gauteng Health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa said the number of injured people is currently at five two patients, two workers and one hospital staff member.Ramokgopa said: &quot;I just want to assure the country that the fall was contained to the front of the hospital and the area has been cordoned off. We've just had to move some of our out patients.&quot;The head of the hospital's trauma unit Dr Steve Moeng said the injured people had sustained injuries on the front part of the body, but would not elaborate further.[email&#160;protected] The Star