Natasha Lombard has finally broken her silence, two weeks after a Goodwood couple had her arrested after guests arrived at their reception to find an empty hall. Lombard has since refunded the R17 000 they paid her for food and decor. Lombard, the owner of I Do Weddings in Malmesbury, and her husband, Shane, were arrested at the Goodwood venue on March 7, but were released after a court found that the matter was not criminal, and police advised the couple to approach the Small Claims Court. Since then, four other couples have come forward to say they, too, have been cheated by Lombard, while her supplier in Malmesbury claims she is still owed money from December. An upset Aziza Sedick, 47, says Lombard owes her R5 000. “Natasha took R10 000 worth of stuff from me last year oppie boekie. She paid me R4 000 and then R1 000. She was supposed to pay me back in December, but it’s almost April already and I still haven’t received the other R5 000,” says Aziza. Aziza says she trusted Natasha because she seemed professional and “had a nice way of talking to people”. She supplied Lombard with baking and cooking supplies. “The whole catering she did for these weddings are things she bought from me on the boekie,” says Aziza. ("The whole catering she did for these weddings are things she bought from me on credit,") says Aziza. The cherry on top was on March 8, when she paid Lombard R720 for a birthday cake. “She came here with old cake because when I cut it, the cake fell apart and had peanut butter inside instead of the caramel I asked for. I threw the cake back at her and told her ‘die is mos k** die’.” She says Lombard has been dodging her and when she went to look for her at her home on Thursday, the family was missing. “She probably moved out during the night. Her car is still standing there without wheels and there wasn’t a fork or spoon or cupboard.” Aziza is now planning to lay a charge of theft against Lombard. Lombard has previously refused to reply to Daily Voice queries, but on Thursday finally broke her silence. Replying to an email query, she said: “If you know your God, ask and all will be revealed to you. I have no reason to hide or run." “As a family, we have decided to keep still and allow the allegations and accusations.” In a second email, Lombard said: “This is not my battle. I don’t fight the devil, I leave that in God’s Hands.” Daily Voice