Johannesburg – EFF leader Julius Malema said he would miss Ahmed Kathrada’s fearless contribution to the political discourse in the country. Malema also expressed joy that Kathrada's family had barred President Jacob Zuma from attending his funeral service at the West Park Cemetery in Joburg on Wednesday. “We will miss his fearless contribution to the discourse in the country, we will miss his guidance. We needed him the most now because our country is going through quite a difficult period. It is fearless and open-minded cadres like Uncle Kathy who are needed now to continue to speak truth to power, whether the power listens or not, it doesn’t matter but they are hearing,” said Malema, responding to Independent Media’s question.    He said they were happy that Zuma had been barred from taking part in the funeral proceedings, saying: “We have to respect the family’s wishes. His family made it very clear that Uncle Kathy had wished that he (Zuma) should not be here. We are happy that the family did not undermine the wishes of the dead. "Uncle Kathy wanted Zuma to step down – that wish must be realised because in African tradition we don’t undermine the wishes of the dead. "If he really cared about Uncle Kathy, he would not have responded through insults to the letter that Uncle Kathy wrote him,” Malema said. Read: Zuma not attending #Kathrada burial Kathrada wrote an open letter to Zuma last year, imploring him to step down after his unpopular decision to fire Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister. That led to the economy shedding billions of rand. Malema, who is the former ANC Youth League president, said they would always try to avoid Kathrada at all costs because he was a disciplinarian. “We were grand kids at the time, we would run away from him because every time we came into contact with him, he would whip us into line,” he said. Gauteng Premier David Makhura described Kathrada as a selfless leader who devoted his entire life in the struggle for freedom.    Cabinet ministers including Malusi Gigaba Thulas Nxesi, Pravin Gordhan, Aaron Motsoaledi, and Blade Nzimande are attending the funeral service. Former AU Commission chairperson Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma is also present. @luyolomkentane luyolo.mkentane@inl.co.za The Star