“We will continue to engage with the group regarding vacancies and will consider those who are qualified for posts should they become available,” said Michael Farr, spokesperson for Sun International. The brand new city development was hit by a massive labour protest on Tuesday morning, when 500 job seekers from the surrounding area stormed the basement parking demanding jobs be given to residents of Pretoria. Witnesses said the job seekers barged into the parking area at about 8am, demanding an audience with those in charge of recruitment. They became violent, hurling bricks and other items as they demanded to be allowed access to the construction site. Police had to be called in to maintain peace and order. “A 40-year-old sergeant stationed at Brooklyn police station sustained slight head injuries when he was hit by a brick while attempting to stop the mob from entering the premises,” police spokesperson Colette Weilbach said. “The officer was taken to hospital but was fortunately able to return to his post shortly after receiving medical assistance,” she added. Roughly 10 000 direct and indirect jobs were anticipated to have been created during the construction and initial fit-out and start-up phase. Farr said the group of job seekers alleged that the hotel and casino giant had not employed people from the city and demanded it did so. “We will continue to engage with the group regarding vacancies and will consider those who are qualified for posts should they become available,” Farr said. It was not fair to be blamed for failing to employ locals to work at the development, he said. “We have taken a lot of staff from Morula Sun in Mabopane to meet the governing bodies’ requirements.” Farr said although they were sympathetic to the community’s need for employment, it wasn’t possible to absorb people where there was no space. “Despite the day’s disruptions we have not received any communication that the opening would be delayed, as it stands.” Details of the protesters and their reason for going to the site just before the opening of the casino remained sketchy. But allegations were made of the dismissal from the site of a community leader being at the centre of it all. The R4 billion casino is set to be the second largest in South Africa after GrandWest Casino in Cape Town, with 2 000 slot machines and 60 tables. Upon completion, it is set to be the biggest hospitality, gaming and leisure industry development since the construction of Sun International’s GrandWest Casino in 2000. Sun International has said the complex was taking shape and its distinguishing roof was already a part of the Menlyn skyline. The massive casino roof spans 85m at its widest point and covers over 10 000m². The weight of the steel used in the roof structure of the casino, hotel, globe bar, arena and dummy globe equals 834 tons. Farr said the project was divided into three phases, and phase one was the casino, which would open on April 1. That would be followed by the 8 000-seater entertainment arena in September and the hotel in March next year. Sun International announced plans to move its Morula Sun operations to Menlyn Maine in 2014, attracting the wrath of local residents and the gaming industry. A court action was launched and the Gauteng Gambling Board was approached to not grant them a licence to operate in Pretoria. The group said relocation to the urban area would boost its finances since Morula Sun was not easily accessible and had no growth of non-casino gambling activities in its catchment area. After clearing one opposition hurdle after the other, things eventually smoothed out and construction commenced in 2015.  Time Square jobs * During the construction phase, an estimated 10 000 jobs were created. * After completion, Time Square will create an estimated 2 200 permanent jobs, with 1 228 jobs provided by Sun International and a further 972 through service providers. * The approximately 600 Morula Casino staff members have all been offered new jobs at Time Square, which many have accepted. Pretoria News  