Johannesburg – Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed full confidence in the Constitutional Court to find a solution to the grants crisis. He said the government had faith in the ability of the judges of the court to dispense an important ruling on the crisis in the next few days. The Constitutional Court ruled in 2014 that the Cash Paymaster Services contract was invalid and that the Department of Social Development and the SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) had to find a new service provider. But this week Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini told the standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) that five companies had bid for the tender in 2015, but that two had later withdrawn and the other three had not qualified. Ramaphosa, who was answering questions in the National Assembly on Thursday, said the grants' crisis would be resolved by the Constitutional Court. He said the Constitutional Court had entered the scene and that the matter would now be dealt with at the highest level Ramaphosa said the Constitutional Court had dealt with the matter in the past and it would be able to address the problem. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said 17 million beneficiaries faced a crisis if they did not get their grants on April 1. The IFP's Mkhuleko Hlengwa said that when Dlamini appeared before Scopa this week, she had left them with more questions than answers. He said they had not got any of the answers they wanted from the minister. Ramaphosa said it was a pity that the IFP and the DA had not been satisfied with the answers of the minister in Scopa. What had to ring in the minds of MPs was that a solution was needed urgently. But UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said Dlamini had gone against Parliament and the Constitutional Court for not resolving this problem after the 2014 judgment. He said consideration had to be given to axing her from the cabinet. But Ramaphosa said this was the prerogative of President Zuma. He said the constitution was clear that members of the executive were appointed by the president, who had the power to hire and fire ministers. The Constitutional Court has demanded answers from Sassa. The matter will be heard on Monday. The Star 