Johannesburg – The illegal selling of municipal land and RDP houses has resulted in the arrest of more officials working for Joburg’s Department of Housing. The two, allegedly linked to a syndicate, were arrested together with two alleged accomplices on charges of fraud and corruption. They appeared in court and were released on bail of R5 000 each. The case has been postponed to April 11. A few years ago, the department demolished many of the houses that had been built illegally on municipal land in Lenasia. This was after some officials from the department sold the stands illegally to unsuspecting victims. Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba said a syndicate, working in collusion with the city’s Department of Housing, municipal officials and a councillor, started allocating stands to people at a fee, while unsuspecting individuals bought the stands. A similar modus operandi applied to the allocation of RDP houses. Many of the victims have constructed houses on illegally sold land. The syndicate’s main target was people who did not qualify for home loans and/or earned a salary that is outside the bracket of eligible beneficiaries. “It is disgraceful that officials and politicians were taking advantage of our people’s desperation for their own enrichment,” said the mayor. The arrests follow investigations conducted by the city’s anti-corruption unit headed by General Shadrack Sibiya, who worked closely with the Hawks and the prosecuting authority to ensure the suspects’ arrest. “I would like to commend all involved for their excellent work in turning the tide on corruption in our city. I am informed that these arrests are only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to housing corruption in the city and we expect a number of further arrests to be made in the near future,” Mashaba said. The ANC in Joburg said it was appalled by the alleged conduct of the suspects, saying it maintained its firm stand against crime and corruption. “We are disgusted by this act of preying on the most vulnerable members of our communities. Should it emerge that an ANC councillor is involved in any wrongdoing in this matter, the ANC Greater Joburg Region will act decisively,” said party spokesperson Jolidee Matongo. @annacox The Star