Johannesburg - Rhino poaching declined last year by just above 10%, according to statistics released by the the Department of Environmental Affairs this week.Department spokesperson Albi Modise said officials were pleased to report that the Integrated Strategic Management Approach was yielding results. The 2016 statistics indicate that we registered a decline in the number of rhinos poached, both for the country as a whole and for Kruger National Park (KNP). A total of 1&nbsp;054 rhinos were poached in 2016, compared to 1&nbsp;175 in the same period for 2015, he said.Specifically for the KNP, Modise said a total of 662 rhino carcasses were found last year, compared to 826 in 2015. This represents a reduction of 19.85% in 2016. This decline has taken place despite the continued increase in the number of illegal incursions into the park, he said. Last year, there were at least 2&nbsp;883 instances of poaching-related activities such as poaching camps, contacts, crossings, sightings, tracks, and shots fired in the park. In 2015, 2&nbsp;466 recorded incursions took place during this same period. This is an increase of 16.9%. These criminal gangs are armed to the teeth, well funded and part of transnational syndicates who will stop at nothing to get their hands on rhino horn. This decrease can be attributed to the efforts of our men and women on the ground, especially our rangers, Modise explained.The department said that while there had been a decrease in the number of rhinos killed for their horns in the KNP and Mpumalanga, there was an increase in other provinces. This indicates that syndicates are feeling the pressure from the interventions being employed in the KNP. We are, therefore, prioritising these pressure points through enforcement operations. The department also noted that at least 46&nbsp;elephants were poached in the Kruger during last year. As a result, Modise said a collaboration was formed with partner countries, including China, Vietnam, Mozambique and Lagos. Despite the drop in rhino poaching, the conservation group WWF-SA has voiced its concern over the large number of rhinos lost to poaching last year. While it is reassuring that the rhino poaching statistics for 2016 show there has been a continued decline in the number of animals that have been illegally killed in South Africa over the last two years, it would be premature to regard this as a reversal in the fortunes for the rhino population. It is concerning that more than a thousand, the equivalent of three rhinos a day, continue to be lost to poaching and smuggling syndicates, it said in a statement.Dr Jo Shaw, the rhino programme manager for WWF-SA, noted it had been a decade since the initial upsurge in poaching began in the country. Huge effort has been invested in rhino protection, yet the situation is still out of control and the toll on those working to address the challenge in the region is also unsustainably high. Committed conservationists have been defending wildlife at great personal cost, she said, listing socio-economic conditions of people living near parks and corruption as challenges. This year must see greater collaborative partnerships between conservation and anti-corruption communities to deepen understanding of corruption risks and mitigation strategies, Shaw said.Rhino poaching deaths in South Africa surged from 83 in 2008 to a record 1&nbsp;215 in 2014.South Africa has more than 80% of the world s rhino population, with about 18 000 white rhinos and close to 2&nbsp;000 black rhinos. @lanc_02The Star