Add to this, their other major stresses and it could be a recipe for disaster if not managed properly and pro-actively. Exams aside, teenage years can be rough. Sleep deprivation, hormones and the dilemma of trying to fit in with their peers are real challenges. Top Dog Education chief executive Claudia Swartzberg said: “It’s not surprising that, especially before exam time, they are vulnerable to feeling stressed and overwhelmed, and are sensitive to the pressure of not only learning but doing well, too. "While it’s also not good to be too ‘soft’ on teens, it’s wise to not dismiss the unique challenges they face,” said Swartzberg. She said that general symptoms of pre-exam stress included worrying a lot, feeling tense, getting irritable, suffering stomach pains or headaches, eating more or not eating, feeling hopeless about the future, negative, difficulty in falling asleep and getting up in the mornings, and not enjoying activities that they liked before. Nicola Morgan, a UK-based international speaker and award-winning author on teenagers, and an expert on stress and how to manage it, offers these tips to help manage your teenager's pre-exam stress: 1. Ensure they get enough sleep: The main trick is to use the hour before bed to wind down and to have no screen time and no work or arguments that might raise the heart rate or stress. 2. Ensure they eat well for brain and body: Brains need food, so make sure they’re eating regularly, even when they might not be hungry. Sugary foods cause a dip in energy and affect concentration, so choose snacks such as fruit, nuts, biltong, peanut butter sandwiches or rice cakes. Encourage them to eat meals with a combination of protein, carbohydrates and vegetables. 3. Check they switch off their phone and internet for a while every day: Being connected all the time stops your child from relaxing. Switching off lets one unwind, and simply “be”. 4. Encourage them to read for pleasure: It relaxes and allows them to switch off their worries, and unwind before sleep. 5. Encourage them to take or keep up a hobby: Even if you think that your loved one is too busy for a hobby, it’s worth making time for one. Hobbies take your mind off worries, and having a break from work will also help lower stress chemicals. Hobbies also enable one to socialise, build self-esteem, and have lots of fun - which are all great stress relievers. 6. Remind them to laugh: Laughter makes the brain produce feel-good chemicals, endorphins. Buy your child a joke book, find funny YouTube videos, or encourage laughter by being silly at home. 7. Ensure that your teenager is getting the help they need: Keep communicating with them, and regularly assess their levels of stress, and see if they need anything from you or a professional.Swartzberg also recommended patience, and be careful about the amount of pressure you put on them. “Don't forget to reward your youngster for their study efforts and plan something relaxing or fun to do with them after exam time so that they have something to look forward to,”  Swartzberg said.