The cost for security upgrades was fixed by the cabinet at R100 000 in June 2003, with provision to account for inflation, which now amounts to about R200 000. However, the Gauteng provincial government spent more than R759 000 for security upgrades at the residences of former Gauteng MEC for local government and housing Humphrey Mmemezi in 2012. Mmemezi was fired as MEC in July 2012 following a series of exposés by The Star. He, however, retained his seat in the Gauteng legislature and also his position in the provincial ANC, deputising Makhura, who was Gauteng ANC provincial secretary then. Aware of Mmemezi’s past, Makhura said his government would act against any MEC found to have exceeded the limit. He made the undertaking in his written reply to questions by DA's Jack Bloom,  saying since he took over in 2014 “a total amount of R1.1 million has been spent on security upgrades at the private residences of the Gauteng premier and his MECs over the past three years". Makhura said that he had ordered that any MEC whose private residence security upgrades had exceeded R200 000 should pay the difference. The big spenders were former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu (R252 558), former sports, arts & recreation MEC Molebatsi Bopape (R230 190), Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi (R200 000) and Community Safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane (R149 536). Most of the costs were incurred on the upgrade of perimeter fences, security gates and cameras. He said Economic Development MEC Lebogang Maile had a security guard assigned to his private residence “as part of the general security contract for guarding the department's buildings”. Makhura also said that the extra cost for security at Mahlangu’s house were as a result from a threat and risk assessment by police before 2014. “Her security was improved, including guarding services, and this cost R251 558 for the period May 2014 to February 2017. Bloom welcomed Makhura’s commitment to stamp out abuse. According to Makhura “there were loopholes with regard to expenditure cap on security because departments were instructed to pay whatever was in accordance with the recommended security upgrades, regardless of the cost.” However, Bloom said: “We all face the risk of crime and the state should only pay for extra protection for politicians if it is related to their work and justified by an objective police assessment”. In November 2012, then-housing MEC Ntombi Mekgwe appeared oblivious of the 2003 cabinet decision when she defended the amount spent on security upgrades at Mmemezi’s house. Replying to questions asked in the provincial legislature by the DA’s Fred Nel, Mekgwe said the provincial government spent more than R759 000 saying “it was part of the standard benefits for the MEC if they wanted to”. Mekgwe said Payless Projects and Security was contracted to build a security wall, install CCTV cameras, build a guardhouse and install shatter-proof windows. She gave the reply on November 20, 2012. This was five months after The Star in June of that year ran a series of articles which exposed how Mmemezi’s office spent more than R5m to install security systems at its headquarters, including a private security entrance for Mmemezi to his office. The Star also revealed how Payless Projects and Security was also appointed to build a security wall and systems at Mmemezi’s private house in Krugersdorp. Mekgwe said the former premier Nomvula Mokonyane had approved the security upgrades and no action would be taken against Mmemezi and departmental officials who approved the upgrades.