The protest over contracts that were not renewed has been going on for more than a week. Lungile Dhlamini, director of Pikitup, Funzela Ngobeni, a Member of the Mayoral Committee for Development Planning, and Bhekisa Shongwe, chairperson of the Pikitup Board, yesterday branded the actions of the protesters “criminal”. Muzi Mkhwanazi, communication manager of Pikitup, said, in May, three-month contracts signed by the former beneficiaries of Jozi@Work, through the City’s Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP), expired. “What is upsetting is that Pikitup workers are prevented from discharging their responsibility of ensuring that the city is kept clean. This has a direct impact on growing jobs, as Johannesburg cannot lure investment back to the inner city when lawlessness is causing havoc on our streets.” said Mkhwanazi. Paul Tlhabang, the deputy regional secretary of the South African Municipal Workers Union, said the organisation had no knowledge of any of the grievances raised concerning its members. “The workers have not come forward to us, we are not aware of anything at this stage,” said Tlhabang. Mkhwanazi underlined that it was wrong for the workers to think that they were entitled to the renewal of their contracts. “We wish to reiterate that we have been clear about the temporary and rotational nature of the contracts and have at no point stated or implied that anyone would be entitled to an extension, or that the three-month contracts would result in full-time employment,” he said. According to him, not being able to clean the waste has had serious health implications to residents, and has resulted in the department using additional resources and cleaning shifts. This costs R50 000 a day. There was an additional R49.2 million allocated to Pikitup through the adjustment budget in a bid to clean up the city. He feared that if the department was to use up the funds, residents in the inner city, and informal settlements, would be robbed of  services. Pikitup indicated that its employees were not on strike. It has distanced itself from incidents of vandalism, assault and hijacking of trucks. “We have reason to believe this criminal behaviour is organised by a third party, as we have seen footage showcasing how these individuals are systematically dropped off at various locations, after which they vandalise city infrastructure, turn over our skips and hijack our waste removal trucks and dump the waste in the inner city,” said Mkwhanazi.