Durban -  Three men were killed and seven others injured in a shootout with police on the N2, between Harding and Kokstad today. The men were allegedly on their way to commit a cash-in-transit robbery when they were intercepted by police. Captain Nqobile Gwala, police spokesperson, said police units stationed in close proximity responded and intercepted the three vehicles which were a Ford Territory SUV, a Toyota Hilux Legend and a BMW sedan. “Information indicated that the suspects were going to rob the armoured vehicle which was transporting money along that route. When confronted by police, the suspects opened fire on police officers who immediately retaliated to defend themselves. In the exchange of gunfire, three suspects were shot and killed while seven were arrested, one of whom was removed to hospital for medical attention. Police managed to prevent the robbery of the cash-in-transit vehicle. A total of four AK 47 rifles, a 9mm pistol and additional rifle was seized by police,” she said.
 
KZN Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa condemned the attack on police officers. “We are grateful that our police officers were not killed or injured following this shoot-out with highly armed criminals even though our SAPS vehicles were damaged in the process. We are also relieved that through the speedy and precise actions of the police officers involved, these dangerous criminals were arrested,'' he said. The shooting on Friday brings to 15 the number robbers killed in police shooting in KZN over the past month. Timeline: August 4
Three men killed in a shootout with police on the N2, near Nandi Drive. One gang member was arrested and one is still on the run. They were allegedly on their way to commit a crime when police intercepted them and a shootout ensued. August 14
Three men killed in shootout with police on the M13. The men had allegedly robbed a cash van. One man was injured and one fled. August 28
Six men killed following cash-in-transit robbery in Springfield. Robbers fled to Parlock where four were killed and another died in hospital. Two men were arrested and appeared in court yesterday. They are due back in court on September 7 for a formal bail application. September 1
Three men killed in a shootout with police on the N2. Seven more men were arrested at the scene. Daily News