Pop star Justin Bieber and R&B/hip-hop singer The Weeknd’s fashion offerings will be available in stores around the world in the coming weeks. This includes Sandton City, Mall of the South, Clearwater Mall and Mall of Africa in and around Joburg, as well as H&M at the V&A Waterfront in Cape Town. Beliebers will be delighted to know that the musician’s street style range has been in stores since yesterday. This follows the success of his The Purpose Tour, the Canadian-born singer’s third worldwide tour in support of his fourth studio album, Purpose. It also made an appearance in South Africa when Bieber performed in Joburg and Cape Town in May. The singer’s H&M collection is full of attire inspired by Bieber’s latest merchandise collection from his tour. The menswear collection, which can be worn by women too, includes T-shirts, sweatshirts, hoodies and sweatpants, with elements of motor racing featuring on the garments. Bieber’s collection comes in simple palettes of black, white and grey, with the occasional splash of colour such as bold red and yellow. The range is simplistic in style, with the occasional graphic of Bieber’s face or the singer on a motorcycle. It also features the words “Stadium”, “Bieber”, “Team” and “Purpose Tour 2017”, using playful fonts, on some of the garments. One of the best pieces from the range is a red baseball jacket. Only a small selection of The Weeknd’s range has been made public thus far. This week, he took to Instagram to announce his style collaboration with H&M. The Weeknd - whose real name is Abel Makkonen Tesfaye - posted a picture of himself wearing one of the pieces, a plum baseball jacket with black leather sleeves
and corresponding white details of a “W” in leather embroidery. The back of the jacket has a graphic of a snake curled around a sea lion. H&M South Africa spokesperson Conrad Roselt revealed that The Weeknd’s range features an 18-piece collection of men’s wardrobe essentials. The garments will all be available in selected H&M stores worldwide, including Joburg and Cape Town, as from September 28. @Karishma_Dipa