The Greater Eldorado Park Business Forum (GEPBF) and Eldorado Park Steering Committee did not rule out the possibility of another violent episode. Recently, there was chaos and disruption at the school when residents resisted the appointment of a principal. There were allegations that they did not want a black principal and recommended a coloured one instead. It has since been established that the hired principal scored the third highest points in the panel interview. Although the situation has since calmed down and teaching resumed after Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi intervened, learners’ ill-discipline and drug use remain rife on the school premises. This week, Lesufi said he was considering changing the entire school’s structure for next year. However, members of the two community forums told The Star yesterday that they did not agree with Lesufi’s complete overhaul plans because they were in line with the SA Democratic Teachers Union’s (Sadtu) Operation Vat Alles (Operation Take Everything). They claimed the operation appeared to be aimed at filling leadership positions at all 32 mainly coloured schools in the area with black members. “Sadtu’s campaign to infiltrate and control schools has now spread into Eldorado Park as well, and this leaves us with the ultimate questions: when will Sadtu stop and why is the Department of Education not doing anything to rectify the behaviour of the union?” asked GEPBF spokesperson Charis Pretorius. Sadtu national spokesperson Nomusa Cembi said they only became aware of Operation Vat Alles in the media. “We are a nonracial and nonsexist organisation and we could never sanction such a thing because it’s against what we stand for,” said Cembi. Pretorius said the reshuffling would not work as residents were already on tenterhooks. “He (Lesufi) is planning to bring about a complete change without consulting the community. He will get major resistance. His plans will hit a brick wall,” said Pretorius. Department spokesperson Steve Mabona said Operation Vat Alles did not make 
sense because the school governing bodies only made recommendations for candidates for principal positions and unions were only observers in the process. He added that Lesufi would communicate his final decision with the residents soon. @lindilesifile