Alongside his brothers, Wynton, Delfeayo and Jason, he was born and raised in New Orleans, the jazz city of Louisiana on the meandering Mississippi River, as the oldest son of famous jazz pianist and educator Ellis Marsalis. A melting pot of African, European and native American cultures, New Orleans is regarded as the cradle of jazz. It was home to some of the greatest musicians of all time - Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Sidney Bechet and gospel singer Mahalia Jackson. This is the cultural background that gave birth to the remarkably talented saxophonist who, at 57, is at the apex of his creative powers and is respected as one of the mainstays of artistic excellence on the contemporary international scene. From his early acclaim as a saxophonist who brings fresh energy and new audiences to jazz, he has refined and expanded his talents and horizons as a musician, composer, bandleader and educator. His first instrument, the clarinet, gave way to the alto and then the tenor and soprano saxophones when the teenage Branford began working in local bands. A growing fascination with jazz as he entered college gave him the basic tools to obtain his first major jobs with trumpet legend Clark Terry and alongside Wynton in Art Blakey’s legendary Jazz Messengers. When the brothers left to form the Wynton Marsalis Quintet, the world of uncompromising acoustic jazz was invigorated. Branford formed his own quartet in 1986 and, with a few minor interruptions in the early years, has sustained the unit as his primary means of expression. Known for the almost telepathic communication among its uncommonly consistent personnel, its deep book of original music replete with expressive melodies and provocative forms and an unrivalled spirit in both live and recorded performances, the Branford Marsalis Quartet has long been recognised as the standard to which other ensembles of its kind must be measured. The quartet rarely invites other musicians into the folds of their cohesive unit, but in December 2015 they were joined by guest vocalist Kurt Elling for a weekend’s engagement in New Orleans. The result was the Grammy-nominated collaboration album, Upward Spiral (2016). Branford has not confined his music to the quartet context. In addition to guest turns with a legion of giants including Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, Herbie Hancock and Sonny Rollins, he has excelled in duets with major pianists, including his boyhood friend Harry Connick jnr and the long-time pianist in his quartet, Joey Calderazzo. During his first visit to South Africa, he mesmerised jazz lovers with his magic on the sax and conducted a memorable workshop at the Music Academy of Gauteng in Benoni with young and enthusiastic students such as Mthunzi Mvubu and Malcolm Jiyane. “I was struck by the sincerity and eagerness among the students, as well as South African musicians and Dr Johnny Mekoa,” Marsalis recalls fondly. “All of the tools to make a great jazz musician were already there. I had a great time. “I am happy to return to the Joy of Jazz Festival and proud that the organisation continues to promote jazz as a priority at the festival.” To date two other brothers - Delfeayo and Wynton - have graced the Joy of Jazz stages, in 2007 and 2011, respectively. So what are the chances of the youngest brother, drummer Jason, and patriarch Ellis Marsalis, playing with them at the festival? “Given that my father is 82 years old, you'd best hurry up. It’s all a matter of scheduling, availability and the desire of the organisation that promotes the festival,” he says. What’s the most valuable advice he ever received from his parents? “'Always focus on eliminating your mistakes, not bragging about your successes. “'No one improves by patting themselves on the back.'” Yesterday, Branford returned to the Music Academy of Gauteng in what transpired to be another interesting and illuminating learning experience with a jazz master. His virtuoso performance alongside Jonas Gwangwa was one of the highlights of that festival. While trumpeter Wynton Marsalis’s artistry has been defined as focused on conserving the rich New Orleans tradition of pathfinders such as Louis Armstrong, Delfeayo’s has been described as one of the freshest modern voices on trombone. He is a product and heir of the same tradition, but he has taken the music to exciting directions as albums such as The Last Southern Gentlemen (2014) attest. What are his impressions of an older generation of trombone players like our own Jonas Gwangwa? “One of the great African traditions that we jazz musicians uphold is the responsibility of the younger musicians to the older and vice versa,” he says. “My meetings with Mr Gwangwa have been special, because we are part of the same tradition. “As you mature as a musician, your personality comes through the music more and your studies become more personalised. “So, while Mr Gwangwa played with such passion and resolve, I brought back memories for him of his younger days and we were able to share our experiences by meeting on the common ground,” he says, referring to a memorable performance they did together in 2007. With regard to that performance, Delfeayo has nothing but fond memories of his stay in South Africa. “Visiting this country is one of the truly life-changing experiences I’ve ever had. It gave me clarity about the love, beauty and joy of New Orleans and where the idea of American southern hospitality originated. My last two albums celebrate African heritage in the liner notes and music, especially the songs Back to Africa and Living Free and Running Wild. “I’ve written a musical titled From the African Village to the Urban Village. It looks at parallels between African culture and America. "In our weekly performances here in New Orleans, I often mention that all of what we consider American culture has roots in the motherland, the music, dance, food and certainly the good-natured attitude of the south. “I would love nothing more than to return to South Africa with my jazz orchestra, a small ensemble or musical theatre kids.” Indeed it would be any South African jazz lover’s dream to experience a performance with all the Marsalis brothers and their dad on stage. Is something like that a possibility? “It will be difficult to imagine from a scheduling point of view. But how great would that be. I wish it happens soon, because my father is 82 and travelling that great distance is a challenge,” he adds. The most valuable advice he has ever received from his parents? “Be honest, work hard and love yourself." “It’s great to see the festival is growing and keeping the music alive.” Marsalis will perform at the Naledi stage tonight at 10.15pm and early on Sunday.