DJ Tira’s crew - Durban Massacre - proved to be the kings of music on the night. The clash saw four crews go head to head against each other to prove that their genre was the best. Tira was up against hip hop’s AKA, reggae/dancehall’s Admiral & Jah Seed as well as Nigeria’s Patoranking as the international act. The event was hosted by Siyabonga Ngwekazi and Thapelo Mokoena, who explained how the clash rules worked. The crews would go through four rounds, and a winner would be announced after each round. The first two rounds were about the crews introducing their sound to the audience, who would then in turn scream for who they thought brought the best sound. The third round tested the crews by making them play any other genre than their own. The fourth round saw the crews bring out special guest artists to help them clinch the win. CELEBRATION: The Durban Massacre crew relish in their win. Picture: Bhekikhaya Mabaso A "scream barometer" was used to judge who got the loudest "applause" after each round. DJ Tira’s Durban Massacre won the first round, giving the audience a taste of how their next three rounds would be. His crew featured some of the best gqom groups, including Distruction Boyz, Zodwa Wabantu and Naak Musiq. The set was a mixture of Durban kwaito and house, and left the audience wanting more. Each crew had 10 minutes to give their best first impression. DURBAN MASSACRE: DJ Tira performs during one of the rounds. Picture: Bhekikhaya Mabaso AKA’s crew Top Boyz won round two. The crew chose not to stick to their genre and included kwaito and house hits as well. Admiral & Jah Seed’s African Storm crew had some of the best dancers on stage. Patoranking’s crew Red Hot didn’t give much justice to the Nigerian beats the audience was looking forward to. He chose to play more South African hits, which took away from his team’s effort to win the clash. DJ Tira bagged the third round as well after Riky Rick came on stage to perform his hits Boss Zonke and Sidlukotini. For the fourth and final round, the crews had the chance to blow the audience away with some surprise acts. The Top Boyz crew took the audience to "church" and "prison" at the same time by bringing out Molemo "Jub Jub" Maarohanye to perform his hit single Ndikhokhele. African Storm went reggae classic and brought Beenie Man, who belted out his tunes Sim Simma and Girls Dem Sugar. SIM SIMMA: Beenie Man took the audience back with his hit songs. Picture Bhekikhaya Mabaso Patoranking brought none other than the current king of hits, Davido, who spoilt the audience with a taste of his huge hits If and Fall. The Durban Massacre crew took it all the way back with kwaito legend Mdu. RED HOT: Nigerian hot boys Patoranking and Davido. Picture: Bhekikhaya Mabaso Patoranking’s Red Hot crew had to be disqualified after they repeated a song that was already played by one of the other crews. That left Tira, AKA and Admiral & Jah Seed to compete for the loudest screams. The most exciting thing about the event was that for most of the songs that the crews played, the artists responsible for them were there. The audience got the chance to see the likes of HHP, Zola, Spikiri (Trompies), Sjava, Nasty C, Emtee, Lvovo Derango and Kwesta, among many others. GQOM GLORY: The Durban Massacre crew celebrates their win. Picture: Bhekikhaya Mabaso The overall production of the show was amazing but the stadium did not fill up. Considering how many great artists were at the event, promotion of the event in and around Soweto could have been better.@mane_mpi