For the mother of one, who works for iLAB software testing company at the BCX/Telkom site in Centurion, Kilimanjaro held many meanings. It was a personal challenge, but also a way to celebrate her life journey and raise awareness of the importance of relationships, particularly those between dads and their children. “As I started the final ascent on summit night, I was numb, neither excited nor anxious. I was amazed by my level of calmness,” said Kekana. “I just took it easy, one foot in front of the other, slowly or ‘pole-pole’ as the Tanzanians say. “It was really hard just before Stella Point (where climbers get first sight of Uhuru Peak), I was in tears.” What kept her going was the understanding that the physical and mental pain she was going through was not greater than the pain of those for whom she was climbing - the children who grow up without fathers. “Despite the nausea, headache and dizziness, I did it. It took me about an hour to do the last 700m. When I could see the Uhuru sign, all that I was going through melted away. Tears of victory were rolling down my face. A sense of healing came upon me and the biggest gift, that of freedom - as the name Uhuru means in Swahili.” Kekana, who lives in Bryanston, chose to climb Kilimanjaro to support Fathers A Nation, an NPO which strives to equip men to be good fathers and role models. The implications of absent fathers are immense, and has been cited by Unicef as the single biggest social issue of our time. “I once addressed prisoners at Leeuwkop Prison, and most shared how they did not have a father to guide and support them growing up, and thus they ended up in prison. "I realised how important fathers are in children’s lives and that this issue doesn't get enough airtime,” she said. Kekana, who’ll be turning 40 next month, believes her conquest has made her stronger for the challenges of her career as well as her role as a mother to her daughter, Pumpkin. She said she would continue to support her chosen cause which encourages men to take their responsibilities as father figures seriously, using their strength to love and protect women and children.