The annual Jazz on the Lake concert took place on Sunday  at Zoo Lake and rounded off the weekend activities, which also included the Jozi Book Fair and the For Future Generations exhibition at Museum Africa. These were all part of the official Arts Alive Festival programme which was launched on Friday at Joburg Theatre. MMC Nonhlanhla Sifumba said the line-up this year would be spectacular. She added that the programme was about promoting heritage and would be going into several communities including Alexandra, Zandspruit and Eldorado Park. In Alexandra, the Alex Cultural Concert will feature local acts and the likes of Shekinah,Urban Village and Afrikan Roots. The event will take place on September 23 at the New Alex Mall. In Zandspruit, a free youth event will be held on Saturday for young children. It will include music, dance and poetry. The South African Book Fair is on at Museum Africa in Newtown from today to Sunday.  It will be a showcase of African culture and literature. Also on today is the talented drummer Cora Coleman-Dunham  who goes by the name Queen Cora. The drummer used to play for the iconic performer Prince, who died last year, and has also shared the stage with Beyoncé and Mary J Blige. She will be giving a workshop on drumming and the music industry at the National School of the Arts with vocalist Britney Bloomfrom 3pm today. The African Women International Writers’ Symposium, taking place at The Fringe  at Joburg Theatre from September 13 to 16, is now in its fifth year. Talks, performances, poetry, workshops and music will be offered. The aim of the symposium is to celebrate the achievements of women authors and to offer women a platform to shape their futures through their writing and  projects that can build intra-Africa relations. The symposium will also feature the third annual In Memoriam Lecture for Nadine Gordimer on Friday September 15 at 6.30pm. Professor Lorna Goodison will form part of the panel discussion and run a masterclass writing workshop. There will be a number of international and local authors, writers and poets who will be giving workshops to develop writers of all ages. The Urban Clash Concert is another big one to look out for on September 16. CULTURAL BEATS: Urban Village performing at the Arts live launch at Joburg Theatre. Picture: Dimpho Maja.  Artists like Kwesta, Shekinah, Lady Zamar, Rouge, A Reece, Sjava and Miss Pru will be on the Joburg Theatre stage alongside dancers. Another special item at the Arts Alive Festival will be the Voices of A Capella also on September 16. The show will be a collaboration between SA and Denmark a capella groups featuring The Soil, Complete and the Baobab Sisters. The Soweto Heritage Festival will host the annual traditional music and dance competition alongside the craft market, beer garden and Soweto Food Market. Rounding off the month of festivities will be the Divas of Kofifi special tribute concert to Thandi Klaasen featuring icons Abigail Kubeka and Dorothy Masuka. Arts Alive Festival manager Roshnie Moonsamy said the festival had all the creative elements of literature, music and special programmes that would have something for everyone. “The festival has really spread out this year and we are very pleased with the direction.” @mane_mpi