Friends of Walied “Walles” Bazier, 40, a prominent member of the Fancy Boys gang, says he was kidnapped, thrown out of a taxi and then shot. The drama unfolded around noon on Sunday in Compassberg Street, Tafelsig, when the dad-of-two was snatched by unknown gunmen who drove him around for two hours before he was brutally gunned down. Close family and friends say Walied knew death was coming soon and “desperately” wanted to leave his gang after his mother passed away earlier this year. They confirm Walied had been a high-ranking member of the Fancy Boys gang and said rumours that he was the gang’s leader were not true. “He was taken in the taxi and we don’t know who took him, they drove around with him for hours,” explains the friend. “I don’t know where they took him but when they came back, they threw him out of the taxi and shot and killed him." “We are not going to hide behind anything; Walied was a Fancy Boy and he was a prominent gang member." “His mother died earlier this year and her death wish was for him to leave the gang, it might sound like a cliché but he wanted to leave and he knew that he was going to die.” Police spokesperson, Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, says cops have made no arrests yet. “We appeal to the community, anyone with more information that can assist with the investigation, to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111; there have been no arrests,” she says. Meanwhile, in a second incident on Sunday, the life of a young man from Beacon Valley was cut short. His 21-year-old female friend survived the shooting. Towfeeq Matthews, 19, completed his matric in June and was described as a shining light with a bright future ahead of him. “He was always helpful to us old people and assisted with anything we needed. I was sorry to hear that he had been killed and I hope they find the people who did this,” says Aunty Mabel Fredericks, 67. Rwexana confirms the incident and says Towfeeq initially survived the gun attack. However, he died of his injuries in hospital. “The motive for the attack is unknown. No arrests were made,” she says. Twelve people have now been killed and two persons wounded since 19 August in areas such as Beacon Valley and Lentegeur. Residents say a turf war between rival gangs the Dixie Boys and Yakkies in Lentegeur, and the Americans, Ghettos and Westsiders in Beacon Valley is behind the violence. Daily Voice