With genres ranging from jazz to hip hop and house music, this included performances by more than 20 of the country’s best musicians. Cassper Nyovest, Sipho Hotstix Mabuse, Lira, Alick Macheso, Amanda Black, Thomas Chauke, Lira, Sjava, Sands, OkMalumKoolKat and Dr Malinga were among them. They were joined by Colbert Mukwevho, Phuzekhemisi, Benny Mayengani, Lady Zamar and DJs Fresh, Lerato Kganyago, Distruction Boyz, Maphorisa, Malwela, Miss Pru, Mobi Dixon and Thuli. The festival was sponsored by local radio station Phalaphala FM. Regular #RoyalHFestival attendee Tumiso Machaba told The Star that the weekend was “epic”.  “This is my third time coming to the Royal (festival) and every time I come here I get to meet new people and experience different situations.” He said what he enjoyed most about the event was that many South Africans who live in various parts of the country descend on Venda for the weekend. “We all come to the royal gardens for one night, and that alone is epic. “Venda is not well known by people. Usually when one asks about Venda, some will tell you about the negative part, but this weekend was the positive,” said Machaba. First-time Royal fan Ayanda Maphalala said she loved the surprise act, which was the legendary kwaito group TKZee. “I loved the performances and it was great seeing TKZee after a long time. “And the gospel concert was amazing.” TKZee, a veteran local group comprising three friends, Tokollo Tshabalala, Kabelo Mabalane and Zwai Bala, are known for their smash hit singles Phalafala and Shibobo. Some of the fun at the festival included the throwing of alcohol and water in the air and a full fireworks show. Legendary African pop music  artist Mabuse, who performed his greatest hits Burnout and Shikisha, told The Star that although the Saturday night crowd was younger, he believed it was a perfect time to educate the audience about their new ideas.  “Well, I always perform the set that I believe people know me for. “And to be honest, tonight’s audience was quite a difficult audience, because they were probably young and have not been exposed to the kind of music I play.” Mabuse said he was highly impressed with how other musicians who performed on the Royal stage have been a part of preserving the South African heritage. He said he believed the music had come a long way. @Zwane_2li2ls 