The power battle between the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) and the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) reared its ugly head yesterday in Carletonville at the memorial service for  Motshewa Matuba, Mohlomi Mokhele, Relebohile Mokemane, Mohlabane Moganedi and Moss Setlhafuno. NUM and Amcu members sat on different sides of the marquee while VIPs, who included Minerals Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, Harmony Gold chairperson Patrice Motsepe and Amcu president Joseph Mathunjwa, and grieving families, sat in the middle. Chaos erupted minutes before NUM’s deputy president, Joseph Montisetsi, was supposed to take to the podium as Amcu members started to sing Struggle songs in their corner, drowning out the band hired for the event. Guests were left not knowing which song to join in. Montisetsi remained in his seat. This went on until NUM’s health and safety chairperson Peter Bailey was asked by Montisetsi to speak on his behalf. Bailey did not mince his words about the union rift which had now spilled over into the service. “If we carry on like this we would not be showing respect to the deceased, their families and government. Let the programme run as it should and let us respect our leaders. This event doesn’t belong to any of us. We are here to pay homage to the deceased,” he said. “If the workers in the mining industry continue to be divided, it is the capitalists that walk away with victory. “We all have a responsibility as labourers, whether we don’t see eye to eye because of our policies as unions. If you are going to fight your fellow worker, we will die in this industry. Workers please unite, you have nothing to lose but your limbs and lungs,” said Bailey, as songs from the Amcu corner persisted. There was less disruption when Mathunjwa took to the podium. Although he called for unity among different unions, he said unions must respect areas that are dominated by opposition unions, alluding to Marikana in Rustenburg, where Amcu enjoys a majority. Mathunjwa added that zero deaths in the mining industry remained “elusive” because of companies and government officials who did not want to co-operate. He said this was made worse because families, by law, cannot sue any company found to have been negligent. “Negligence should be treated as homicide in the justice system,” said Mathunjwa. He committed to work with Harmony Gold to build the families of the deceased mineworkers’ homes. Motsepe supported this. Amcu recently built houses across the country for families of workers killed in the Marikana massacre of 2012. Order had been restored by the time Motsepe spoke. He said poverty among mineworkers should be addressed and that safety should be paramount regardless of profits. “Any business has a duty to its shareholders but we also have a duty to our workers. Unsafe mines should be closed and those workers redeployed to safer mines.” Zwane challenged Motsepe to lead change. “You must own more mines so that you can do what you are doing at Sundowns and pay mineworkers decent salaries,” he said. @lindilesifile