The situation is so dire that the Gauteng Department of Education has started working on a plan to place Grade 12 pupils elsewhere so they can prepare for next month's matric exams. “The situation there is so bad that we had to make these decisions,” said departmental spokesperson Steve Mabona. Scenes of pupils wandering around the school yard while some gamble in the corridors during class time have become so common that teachers have resorted to turning a blind eye. The Star visited the school on Friday and by 9am, scores of pupils were already outside their classrooms while others were seen using a hole in the palisade fence to bunk school. A group of cigarette and possibly drug sellers were easily spotted through the fence, mingling with pupils. At least two fights broke out on the same day.  “This place is a nightmare, the school is a drug den. There is no future. I'm only here because beggars can't be choosers and I have my own children to feed,” said a Grade 10 teacher who has been at Klipspruit West for more than 10 years. The Eldorado Park school was recently in the news after a protest erupted over the hiring of a black principal in July. It is believed that the largely coloured community wanted a coloured candidate to take over as principal. This conflict also exposed racial tensions among black and coloured teachers. Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi responded by deploying another official as a temporary principal and launched an investigation into all the allegations. However, general misbehaviour still reigns at the school and in its classrooms. The pupils seemed to have little respect for their uniforms - many wore their uniforms with sneakers, hoodies and flashy sweaters.  Some sat for hours near the administration block where they entertained themselves with music blasting from Bluetooth speakers. In the classroom, teachers were either waiting for pupils to return from outside or simply proceeded without them. In one classroom, a natural sciences teacher was supposed to start his class at 11am but by 11.15am, none of his 33 pupils were in class. “I don't know what's keeping them. They are usually a more co-operative class than others,” said the teacher. He later abandoned the lesson and carried on marking papers in the empty classroom. At an adjacent Grade 10 class, only 10 pupils out of 34 were attending the mathematics lesson. “They are still playing outside. They say your class is boring,” said one pupil after her teacher enquired where the other learners were. “This is what we have to deal with. They come to school every day carrying empty bags because they know they won't go to lessons. They just gamble, loiter, harass teachers and have sex. I once found used condoms in my classroom,” said the teacher. The Star spoke to three teachers, a member of the school's patrol and several pupils. We learnt that two pupils have received restraining orders after harassing staff. Last year, a teacher was slapped by a pupil after reprimanding him. Several teachers left the school in recent years due to stress emanating from working there. The school had an average 45% matric pass rate in recent years, which climbed to 60% last year, but failed to reach the district office's 80% target. The teachers said the improvement came after they took a decision to take matters into their own hands by introducing weekend classes. They blamed the crisis mainly on a lack of "management stability". In the past 10 years, the school has had two permanent principals, one caretaker principal and two acting principals. “We never had a stable principal in the past 10 years. People who have been acting principals have not shown any commitment. Even with the little effort that we put in, we still get blocked because of the raging racial tensions between black and coloured teachers,” said one teacher. "Only Muslim and coloured teachers have access to the school's email and other study resources distributed by the district office because the school's secretary happens to be Muslim,” claimed another teacher. The recently deployed acting principal is alleged to have been unresponsive to these problems. “He is not always here, and even when he came, he'd just walk around, and not even once did he call a staff meeting,” said a Grade 11 teacher. “The infighting and the blame-game between teachers, parents, the school governing body and the community need to stop so that we can start working collectively. "The pupils are taking advantage of the fact that this school is dysfunctional,” said Charis Pretorius of the Greater Eldorado Business Forum, a community-based organisation trying to assist at the school.