Magaqa had the spirit of passion in his conviction, which is necessary to move the world out of its current suffering. For those among us who strive for solidarity, freedom from alienation and to create and live for humanity as a whole, Magaqa’s death has left a hole in our hearts. “Departing from us, comrade Lenin enjoined us to hold high and guard the purity of the great title of member of the party, we vow to you, comrade Lenin and we shall fulfil your behest with honour,” wrote Stalin. I had the same words when I was told that one of our own comrade is no more. Magaqa had inculcated in himself the very values of the youth of our country that saw them placing themselves in the frontline of our people’s struggle for freedom. He was a social facilitator, very principled and a serious lobbyist of our time. He was part of the youth of our country and OR Tambo’s young lions who led a spirited campaign and became the lifeblood of our heroic struggles. He was a loyal member of the ANC. He always subjected himself to the processes and principles of the ANC. He did this with the knowledge that, despite growing pains and what seems like a non-ending confusion, the ANC remains the only vehicle through which we can effect positive change in our communities. It was Oliver Tambo in 1981 at the funeral of Joe Gqabi who reminded us that: “The future is bright. The end is glorious; it is peaceful. But the intervening period is dark, bitter and finds its glory in the act of struggle.” In line with the words of Tambo, Magaqa is part of this glory because his life has been exclusively one of struggle for his people. He understood that the abolition of the colonial-
apartheid system of governance and its attended institutions did not resolve the conflict between the social democratic idea, as expressed in the National Democratic Revolution, and the reality of largely racialised social divisions. There still remains an urgent need to achieve an estate of equal citizenship for the historically marginalised black, particularly Africanpeople. As we pay tribute to this gallant fighter, this process of social democratisation, though advanced, largely because of deliberate policies of the ANC, remains incomplete. We have no need for a litany of statistics for the purposes of this intervention. The plain fact is that black Africans are vastly and proportionally over-represented among those who suffer the maladies and afflictions of social marginality in South Africa, however measured. African communities are among the most miserable, violent and despairing places in this land of fabulous wealth. The prisons are overflowing with young African men, and rates of infection with HIV and other chronic diseases are terrifyingly high in poor communities. African communities experience lower life expectancies, higher infant mortality rates, lower levels of academic achievement, higher poverty rates and greater unemployment. It's mind-boggling that, in the midst of acute socio-economic emergency, the party of that eminent son of our revolution, OR Tambo, should be bound hand and foot by unproductive factional intrigues. As we bid farewell to Magaqa, we must reassert the ethos of service to our disinherited popular masses. We must reject cults of personalities and unproductive factionalism that is leading our revolution adrift. We must categorically and boldly assert that white monopoly capital is the enemy of a sovereign people and adopt policies that unflinchingly challenge power of the finance-industrial-resource white complex. During the course of the current struggle, Magaqa became to me and other comrades a source of great wisdom and sanity. Consistent with his calm demeanour, we always knew that amid the confusion he would always be among the few to calm the noise and ensure sanity prevailed. He was indeed a rare breed. I met Magaqa many years ago while he was serving in ANC Youth League and ANC structures in Umzimkhulu. From that time he always displayed strong leadership capabilities. It was with a great sense of honour that we were to later serve in the same national executive committee of the ANCYL. When we faced persecution as a result of the views we held, Magaqa remained committed to our generational mission of Economic Freedom in Our Lifetime. Magaqa had a true sense of service to his people. His importance in the history of the post-colonial world is monumental as he won the real battle of putting the national question of our economy on the country’s agenda. Lala ngoxolo Dzanibe, Nqolo. Your name and work will endure and transcend generations to come.