This, he says, is because for the past two years, his wife Daphney has sacrificed her time and energy to ensure he achieved his academic goals. Malapela, 44, a paraplegic is today graduating with a master’s in public administration and he says it’s all thanks to Daphney. He was involved in an accident in 2008 when the driver lost control of the vehicle, and he broke his neck and spinal cord, leaving him with a limited use of his hands. He said despite this, and enduring chronic pain, he decided to go back to school. The Limpopo man, who works as the director of disability rights at the City of Tshwane, said: “I decided to go back to school because I realised a gap in public administration in terms of policy implementation. “I realised we are making policies, as government, but when it comes to implementing them to ensure we render services for our people, there is a failure. I then thought maybe I had to go to school and empower myself so I can come back and add value.” For the duration of the course, Daphney drove him to campus and sat with him throughout the classes, taking notes. “Many of the people I was with in hospital lost their wives. The support Daphney has given me is unqualified because many would not tolerate a person who is paralysed like me. They would perceive me as a burden, but she supported me,” he mused. The couple have been together for 25 years and have three children. A proud Daphney said: “Helping him with the course was very easy because that is part of my day-to-day duties. I help him everywhere; at work and at home.” Daphney, who is employed as an administration assistant at the municipality, said there was no space to complain in her life. “I have to be a winner. This is my family, and if I can’t help them and say I am tired, who will? I have to help him and my children,” she said. Daphney said studying was one of the easiest part of their life because they already had a routine, but it had not always been easy. “The year of the accident was worse. I had a six-week-old baby and my husband was in hospital,” she said. She looks forward to pushing her husband onto the stage as he achieves another of his goals. Appreciative of his wife’s efforts, Malapela said: “She came out very clear to defy the odds. She told me if I wanted to go back to school, she would support me. Actually, the university was supposed to give her something because she was also in the class,” he laughs.