Johannesburg - A mother believes that a suspected cash-in-transit heist kingpin is responsible for the disappearance of her daughter. Speaking of her pain, ahead of the first anniversary of Linda Matati's disappearance, a distraught Gloria Sibuye said she still hopes for the safe return of her daughter. Each time she goes to the high court in Joburg, when her daughter’s suspected killer and alleged cash-in-transit heist kingpin Thabo Happy Mosia appears to answer charges relating to her kidnapping and murder, she prays he will tell her what happened to her then 24-year-old child. Despite Mosia being charged with murder, Sibuye still believes her daughter is alive. Mosia was once one of the most wanted men in Gauteng for his involvement in heists and was in hiding until he was nabbed five months after Matati went missing from a party they had both attended. He allegedly offered Matati, who worked for SBV, a lift from the party in hopes of getting inside information on cash-in-transit car movements, Sibuye believes. Read: Cops nab Gauteng’s most wanted In 2011, Mosia was arrested in Eldorado Park in connection with four cash-in transit heists that occurred in March 2005 in Bedfordview, February 2006 in Bedfordview, June 2006 in Mothutlung and August 2006 in Tsakane. At the time, the police said he was also allegedly linked to possession of property stolen in Mondeor, armed robbery in Lenasia, as well as possession of car-breaking implements. The arrest made him the last of the 50 most-wanted suspects that the Hawks were tracking who were still on the run. A month before his arrest, the Asset Forfeiture Unit seized Mosia’s assets, including two houses, one of which was valued at R1.2 million at Liefde en Vrede, south of Joburg. He had also bought his mother - a social grant recipient - a house worth R120 000 for cash. It is unclear what happened to the case concerning the heists and National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwana said: “When we looked into his criminal history, we realised that cases opened against him just disappeared. He was arrested and nothing ever happened, and so far we have been able to link him to two cases of cash-in-transit heists in Germiston and Johannesburg.” Matati’s kidnapping and murder case was heard in the high court in Joburg on Friday, and again, Sibuye, who travels six hours from Mpumalanga to attend the court proceedings, was left disappointed as Mosia has remained tight-lipped on her first-born’s whereabouts. Sibuye said: “He is the only one who knows where she is and he doesn’t want to say. I just want him to tell me what he did with my daughter. I am praying for a miracle.” For two months, Sibuye had hoped that Matati would be found when she was informed that Mosia had confessed to killing her and dumping her burnt body on the N12. DNA tests were done and it was discovered it was not Matati’s body. “The Duduza police found a body. Even as they were doing DNA tests, I knew it was not my child because I believe she is still alive. “He must stop lying and tell us where she is and who he is working with,” Sibuye said. For the one-year anniversary, Sibuye is hoping Mosia will tell her the truth and, with his trial also beginning, that he will pay for his alleged wrongdoings. The trial starts on October 13 - four days and one year after her daughter disappeared. For the anniversary, Sibuye and her family plan to hold a prayer session. “Our family are planning a prayer session. We will pray for Linda to come back to us and for the court case to go ahead without any problems.” Mjonondwana said the State had a strong case against Mosia and more charges might be added against him. He remains in custody. The Star