Cape Town - The motion by the official opposition to dissolve Parliament is not likely to succeed tomorrow after most of the parties had indicated they will not support it. The DA tabled the motion after the motion of no confidence against President Jacob Zuma failed last month. Despite supporting the DA in the motion of no confidence against Zuma, other opposition parties had indicated they will not back the motion to dissolve Parliament and have an early election. DA spokesperson Phumzile van Damme on Sunday still called for other parties to support their motion to dissolve Parliament. The DA has 89 MPs in the National Assembly, and it will need another 112 MPs to give the motion the support it needs for the dissolution of the chamber and for the early elections to be held. But the problem does not lie with the opposition as the ANC has dismissed the motion as an attempt by the DA to grab power at all costs. The ANC has 249 MPs in the National Assembly. Other parties had argued that the motion to dissolve Parliament was different to the motion to remove Zuma. They had said the ANC had a mandate to run the state until 2019, when the country goes to the polls. Parliament has two years left before its term of office expires. In the motion of no confidence against Zuma that took place on August 8, some ANC MPs broke ranks and voted with the opposition. The ANC has taken action against some of its MPs who have spoken out against Zuma. ANC MP Makhosi Khoza is facing disciplinary action in KwaZulu-Natal this weekend. Former tourism minister Derek Hanekom was given 10 days to explain why he should not be removed as ANC national disciplinary committee chairperson. Hanekom was elected in the 2007 Polokwane conference to chair the NDC, and he was re-elected in Mangaung in 2012. But divisions in the ANC have been evident inside and outside Parliament, with the party’s veterans also calling for Zuma to go. Zuma has been under pressure in the past few months over allegations of state capture. But the DA’s call for the dissolution of Parliament will face a serious test tomorrow when MPs vote on the motion. The ANC has been in power since 1994 and has always commanded electoral support of more than 62% in every election. However, the party’s stranglehold on power faces a serious threat in 2019 as it has been weakened by internal divisions, and in the local government elections in August last year it lost more than 10% of voter support. Political Bureau