She told The Star this was because she considers it part of her journey to help those who make the startling revelations to her. “Life has been good to me and I’ve managed to accomplish a lot. I want to use this show as an opportunity of paying it forward and offering my help to those who need it,” she said. “I believe in faith and destiny, and that being part of the show was part of my journey.” The television and radio personality was recently announced as the host of BET Africa’s reality show The Big Secret. The 13-part television programme is set to premiere on our screens next month. The reality series will see participants confess their secrets to Mbau in an attempt to free themselves from their emotional burdens. “Confessors will divulge their secrets to Mbau and then come clean to family, close friends and/or lovers in a gripping final reveal,” the show’s producers said. They hoped that viewers who watched The Big Secret would find the courage and inspiration to begin their own personal journey towards unburdening themselves and reclaiming their lives. Mbau admitted she was nervous when she learnt that she would be the show’s host. “These are real-life stories involving real people, and not a game show,” she said. However, she is adamant that she could be of help to those who confessed to her and that she would be a pillar of strength to them. “I’m not a psychologist or life coach, but I can be a friend and lend an open ear to the participants, and be as honest and sincere as I can.” Mbau said she believed she was chosen to be the show’s host because she had always lived her life openly. “There is no experience or sin that I’ve gone through or committed that people don’t know about me,” she said. Agreeing with her about that was Monde Twala, the vice-president for the BET channel, youth and music at Viacom International Media Networks. He said Mbau had a lot of expertise to draw on and offer the show. “Khanyi has a wealth of life experience in interacting with people from all walks of life, together with challenges she worked through in her own life. “Her exposure to life and its challenges has shaped her sense of compassion, empathy, sensitivity and insightfulness, and these are the qualities which make her trustworthy to the audience and candidates.” Twala added that The Big Secret would be 
“empowering and captivating reality TV”. Mbau said she expected infidelity and sexual issues would feature on the show. “Our country is now in a transitional period after a painful past and I think those kinds of secrets will be confessed,” she said. The Big Secret debuts on BET Africa (DStv channel 129)  at 9.30pm on October 18. Applications to take part in the show have opened. To submit your story, email BigSecret@betafrica.tv, or for details, call 011 799 2200.