Phillip Mgwalana alleged that Storage RSA, which has operations in Gauteng and the Western Cape, “unfairly” sold his family’s furniture pieces and other belongings in March over a R11000 debt they owed to the facility. However, a letter dated August 17, 2017 and seen by The Star from Storage RSA’s lawyers - Miller, Bosman and Le Roux - shows that the total amount received from the auctioneers Auction Pro amounted to R66312.75. Mgwalana added that he found out only last month that his possessions had been auctioned after calling Storage RSA’s Joburg offices to find out how much he still owed and to make payment arrangements for the arrears. This, he said, was despite making payments to the company after his goods were auctioned in March, saying the company had accepted his money without informing him that his goods had been sold. Copies of bank deposit slips The Star has seen show that an amount of R10750 was paid by Mgwalana into Storage RSA’s Standard Bank account from March to August. “I fail to understand why I was not informed about the decision by the company to auction my goods without my knowledge or consent,” Mgwalana said. The goods auctioned off included the family’s leather couches, double-door fridge, dishwasher, bed set, kitchenware and numerous appliances, according to documents from the auctioneers. Mgwalana said he had phoned an employee of the storage facility, who identified himself only as Darius, asking him how they could sell his family’s belongings without their knowledge. “He (Darius) told me he was not the right person to speak to, and his attitude towards me was very cold. He also did not explain the procedures used to auction off my goods,” Mgwalana said. He said he had acknowledged to Darius that his account was in arrears as a result of financial strain and that he was willing to settle it. “I told Darius that even on the day of the auction, a payment was made. I fail to understand why they received my payments and never had the decency to inform me about their intentions.” When The Star contacted Darius yesterday, he identified himself as the facilities manager, but declined to give his surname. In a terse response he said: “It has absolutely nothing to do with you (The Star).” He did, however, acknowledge that payments were received subsequent to the auction, but he refused to comment further about why the company had accepted the payments without informing the family that their goods had been sold. Darius referred all queries to their legal representatives. When the law firm director, NJ le Roux, was contacted for comment, his secretary said
Le Roux was unavailable but that he would return the call, which he did not. Subsequent calls to Le Roux's office went unanswered. In the letter the law firm wrote to Mgwalana, Le Roux stated that his client - Storage RSA - had contacted Mgwalana in February alerting him of payments that needed to be made or else his goods would be auctioned. The letter also stated that an amount of R59140.75, which is the balance accrued from the auction sale, would be paid to Mgwalana when he furnished his account number. Mgwalana’s wife Bukelwa was seething. She insisted
that the amount was “well below” the value of the family’s possessions. @khayakoko88