In South Africa, it remains the number one killer after HIV/Aids, and deaths related to heart and blood vessel diseases are expected to increase by 41% in the next 13 years. Experts are now saying there may be merit in incorporating alternative ways to prevent and treat heart disease. The challenge, according to Dr Dawie van Velden - a medical professional with an interest in integrative medicine and whole-person wellness - is that the prevalence of the major risk factors behind cardiovascular disease (CVD) has increased substantially in the past decade. “The biggest single risk factor by far is high blood pressure, also known as hypertension, which affects one in three South African adults. Hypertension is exacerbated by poor eating habits, obesity, lack of physical activity and excessive alcohol intake. “Across the world we are seeing a huge move towards alternative and more natural ways of treating illnesses, such as heart disease, which is primarily the result of poor lifestyle behaviours. These natural methods include everything from diet, exercise, smoking cessation to destressing through music therapy, meditation, and even drinking home-brewed rooibos tea,” he said. A study in Sweden found that 30 to 60 minutes after drinking 400ml of rooibos, the activity of the angiotensin-converting enzyme, or ACE, is significantly suppressed. This enzyme is believed to be involved in the development of heart disease, and therefore ACE inhibitors are often prescribed to treat hypertension and heart disease. Van Velden said that when blood vessels constrict, blood pressure increases, putting one at greater risk of a heart attack or stroke. “Rooibos tea is known as a bronchodilator, which not only relieves respiratory conditions, but also reduces high blood pressure. "It works in a similar way to ACE inhibitors and helps blood vessels to relax and widen, making it easier for blood to flow through," he said. Spanish researchers also found that drinking rooibos tea can prevent the development of heart disease by preventing the liver from storing excessive fat under the skin and around major organs. Another study, by the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, showed a positive effect in adults at risk of heart disease who drank six cups of rooibos tea every day for six weeks. The study found that rooibos not only protected against oxidative lipid damage, but also favourably improved the lipid profile of the participants by reducing total blood cholesterol levels by 10%.