For new E! Entertainment presenter Katleho Sinivasan, fashion and style is much more than just about shoes and clothes.
“It is something that is so important to me and is such a big part of me. “Style affects so many parts of your life, from the way you feel to the way you walk and how you present yourself,” he says. It is this love for all things fashion that Sinivasan will bring as he co-presents How Do I Look? South Africa with fellow media personality Roxy Burger. The local version of the international show will hit our screens from November. The pair will be joined by South Africa’s leading fashion and beauty experts, who will help contestants who are style-challenged go from drab to fab. The professional glam squad will also include celebrity hair stylist Saadique Ryklief. “Roxy and Kat will accompany the participants every step of the way until their fresh new look is revealed at the end of each episode,” said chief marketing, content officer and managing director of UK and emerging markets at NBCU International Lee Raftery. “Viewers can look forward to touching personal stories as well as lots of practical fashion, beauty and lifestyle tips.” Based on the hit US format, How Do I Look? South Africa will feature style-challenged participants from all walks of life as they each embark on the ultimate makeover journey over the 12-episode series. Burger is also no stranger to hosting as she was part of lifestyle show Top Billing as well as Strictly Come Dancing. However, this is one of the biggest projects for Sinivasan, who this year won a countrywide search for the newest face of the US entertainment broadcaster as the E! South Africa host.  He told The Star that he was looking forward to the new venture as he particularly believes the local version of the show will bring with it its own unique take which will set it apart from the ones in the US and other markets. “There hasn’t been a show like this in the country and I’m so excited to be a part of it because South Africans are such colourful people and I think this will translate on screen.” Since he beat thousands of South Africans to be the face of the international television network, Sinivasen said he has been on a whirlwind. “For me, this is the next level of presenting in terms of the recognition and platform from such a major network.” He said one of the highlights for him since winning the competition was going to Hollywood in the US to meet his fellow presenters such as Zuri Hall. “It was also such a honour to get a shout out from Charlize Theron,” he said. Raftery explained that the reason there is a local version of the US show was to offer South African viewers local content with an international twist. “The launch of How Do I Look? South Africa underscores E!’s on-going commitment to bring South African audiences locally relevant content,” said Raftery. “The show is the perfect fit for fashion-forward E! fans, and offers viewers a great entertainment experience as they follow the ultimate style transformations.” The first episode premieres on November 17 at 8pm CAT only on E! Entertainment Television (DStv channel 124). The call to entry to appear on the show as well as nominations is now open. Visit http://blbc.co.za/wp/how-do-i-look/ for more information.  The Star   Karishma_Dipa 