To celebrate this milestone, the multi-talented singer will be documenting her musical heritage, legacy and contribution with a culturally rich musical chronicle tribute. The star will be honoured by Magnolia Vision Records, the Market Theatre and Kaya FM which will host her for a three-day concert titled Sibongile Khumalo - More than 3 Faces from Friday to Sunday. The musical tribute draws inspiration from  “the passing on of the proverbial baton”. This narrative is as vital to Khumalo’s own growth as it is central to her contribution to the cultural industries as an arts educator and administrator, singer-songwriter, composer, performer and mentor. Each of the three concerts will tell a different part of Khumalo’s story, tracking the passing on of the baton through her lineage and legacy. The More Than 3 Faces concert  is an allegory and metaphor of the circle of life, creation and our inter-connectedness brought to life. Ayanda Khumalo, executive producer, said the aim was to celebrate and give thanks for the music that has been an inspiration to audiences. The first chapter, Haya Khongisa, Haya, goes back to the beginning of the journey. Khumalo will be accompanied by a youthful chamber orchestra and vocal ensemble on September 22. In this instalment, they will explore the rich musical heritage from the past that deeply influenced Khumalo to become the artist she is today. It will also serve as a symbolic passing on of the baton to a new crop of younger singers.  Khumalo will perform selections from the Haya Mtwan’Omkhulu  song cycle, taken from Princess Magogo’s vast repertoire, which she recorded in 2005, as well as selections from The Princess Magogo ka Dinuzulu opera and selections from uShaka ka Senzangakhona -The Epic Poem, all composed and arranged by Professor Mzilikazi Khumalo. The programme will also include compositions by Motsumi Makhene, Bongani Ndodana, Isak Roux and Phillip Miller, as well as arrangements of her favourite choral pieces. For the second chapter, Dreaming in Colour, on Saturday, audiences can expect a quintessential Khumalo performance. The set will be smaller than the first night - with two grand pianos, a jazz trio and voices - but it will be a grand musical experience. She will be joined by a Grammy award-winning pianist with whom she will create an evening of magic. On the final night, the birthday night, it will be a celebration of her musical legacy. Themed From Ancient Evenings to This Evening, young singers who have made a mark on Khumalo’s musical journey will form part of the performance. The creative team behind the three-day spectacle includes the talented Warona Seane as creative director; Marcus Desando directing Haya Khongisa, Haya; with long-time collaborator Mdu Mtshali and Tshepo Mngoma at the helm of the musical direction for this grand musical portrait. Tickets are available through www.webtickets.co.za or at the Market Theatre Box office in Newtown. Single day tickets are available for R300 while a three-day pass is R760.