Although his original creations are now being worn by the likes of Bonang Matheba and Sophie Ndaba at red-carpet events, he began his foray into the fashion world as a model. When he was just a teenager, the now legendary designer, whose real name is Ephraim Molingoana, was rocking the attire of other designers on catwalks around the world.  Recalling this time brings a smile to his face when he tells The Star at his Joburg CBD studio of his modelling career. “I remember a time in Argentina when I didn’t get a chance to go to a barber to trim my hair and I had this huge afro. “I had no choice but to do the audition with my hair like that, and it turned out that I got the job because they loved my big hair.” Although the award-winning designer’s boyish good looks and charisma could have prolonged his modelling career, his love for fashion set him on another path. While Ephymol attended all the fashion shows he could, he began to style some of the biggest stars at the time. They included the late Brenda Fassie, Lebo Mathosa and Lucky Dube. “I even used to style magazine shoots and music videos,” he said. His eye for fashion was so precise that he caught the eye of SA Fashion Week founder Lucilla Booyzen, who encouraged him to start work on his own designs. “I see people’s future before they see it and I had to find a way to convince him that he could do it,” she told The Star during the same studio visit. “He was completely im-
mersed in fashion, so I thought why not design?” Booyzen said this was around 2003, when the only prominent black designers making a mark on the fashion world were Stoned Cherrie and Sun Goddess. “The colleges didn’t have many black designers and we were looking for fashion talent that could be role models. We wanted to unearth potential and drive it into a black design aesthetic.” Ephymol didn’t disappoint, and with the help of Booyzen, he explored the fashion world in Paris, where some of the world’s leading experts taught him a great deal. He admitted that this was no easy task as he had to learn from scratch such complicated elements as cutting on the right block to get the fit of designs right. As Ephymol didn’t have tertiary qualifications in fashion design, he also had to learn about sales, marketing, pricing and all that goes into producing a collection. With his new knowledge, he returned to the country with a renewed love for fashion, and this time channelled all his efforts into design. “My first design was a pink panther with Tsonga and Ndebele print, and I never looked back,” he said. The designer hasn't let his lack of qualifications hold him back and has used his passion for fashion, connections he has made over the years and natural expertise to build an impressive fashion design business from the ground up. His clothes have been so well received that he often gets a standing ovation from fashionistas when his creations are brought to life at fashion weeks. Ephymol reckons that one of the reasons his designs are such a hit is because of the attention to detail, which even extends into the way he conducts market research. He explained that he took his clothes to taxi ranks to ask those gathered at these busy transport hubs what they thought of his designs, and if they considered them wearable. The designer’s source of inspiration is "everything and anything that meets my eye and connects with my soul". “My inspiration is everywhere - I see a metro policeman wearing his uniform with a cap on, and I think of how I can interpret that in my own designs.” But Ephymol doesn’t expect to dominate the fashion world by himself. Over the years, he has built a reliable team who he works with as he produces his menswear and, more recently, womenswear at his studio.  The designer boasts that with the help of this talented team he is able to produce an entire fashion week collection in just a fortnight. Ephymol agrees that he is able to open a store, but says he prefers to work through his studio, as this is how he ensures he has a close relationship with his clients. “I have a huge clientele and I can open a store at any time, but I love interacting with my clients and knowing the kinds of people they are, because this lets me get a better idea of what kind of designs they are looking for.”  The designer is now hoping for international success as he was recently awarded the very first Cape Wool SA prize for menswear. This will see him jet off next month to England, where he will showcase his autumn/winter and spring/summer collections in Bradford. Ephymol has started working on the showcase. He told The Star that it's inspired by
the 1970s, and includes elements of old English glamour, complete with tweed, wool and even faux fur.