Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, in addressing World Rugby’s Council in London, reaffirmed the government’s commitment to making the tournament a spectacular success. He emphasised the government’s commitment was borne out in a financial tournament guarantee of £160 million, that was £40m in excess of the required £120m. Ramaphosa spoke of the power of rugby to unite people. “In 1995, the Rugby World Cup cemented the bonds between our diverse people. In 2023, we hope to use the Rugby World Cup to inspire and unite not only South Africans, but the global community of nations. “In a world facing the threat of polarisation, intolerance and indifference, South Africa is best poised to demonstrate that rugby can break barriers, create hope and unite humanity. “The people and government of South Africa are wholeheartedly behind SA Rugby’s bid.” Sports Minister Thulas Nxesi said: “South Africa’s bid is simple. We promise a tournament that delivers on every single bid requirement. “We don’t need to build new stadia or upgrade old ones; we don’t need to find hotel rooms and you don’t need to worry about the guarantees. “We don’t need to pass new legislation. Every last detail of the required specification is already in place.” South Africa’s bid delegation detailed how hosting the Rugby World Cup in South Africa in 2023 would be the most profitable to World Rugby since the inaugural tournament in New Zealand in 1987. South Africa as a country would also prosper commercially, financially and in terms of job creation and global profile. South Africa 2023 would have a 
R27 billion direct, indirect and induced impact on the South African economy; R5.7bn would flow to low-income households; 
38600 temporary or permanent jobs would be sustained and 
there would be an estimated R1.4bn tax benefit to the government. South African Rugby Union chief executive Jurie Roux said: “We were asked to provide eight venues, the smallest of which must have a minimum capacity of 15000, but we offer eight venues - purpose built for rugby and requiring no upgrading - with the smallest one offering a fully seated capacity of 43500. “And we will host the largest-ever Rugby World Cup final with 87436 fans at the National Stadium in Johannesburg. “Our stadia allow us to place more tickets on sale than ever before; a South African Rugby World Cup would make available 2.9 million seats - 400000 more than the highly successful England 2015 tournament. “But, most importantly this will be the most player-centric tournament ever; it will be unprecedented in comfort, convenience and support.” South Africa, France and Ireland are the bidding countries and World Rugby’s Council will on November 15 vote to determine the host for 2023. South Africa would need a majority 19 from 37 votes to be successful.