Family spokesperson Crystal Osborne yesterday revealed the painful death of Louis de Jonge on Tuesday from injuries suffered after several beatings from a bunch of bullies at Noorderlig Gekombineerde Skool in Benoni this month. Osborne said the Grade 7 pupil and his younger brother had suffered three attacks this month alone. “Both Louis and his brother were attacked on September 5, on the 14th, and then again on Friday, September 15,” she said. “On Friday, he came home after having been kicked in the head by the same boys (who had previously) threatened to kick a ball against his head.” Complaining that he wasn’t feeling well, Louis got into bed and was given medication by his mother under doctor’s orders. The following Monday, a still sick Louis remained at home while his mother, too distraught to speak yesterday, went to work. On Tuesday, his mother got a call from her daughter at around 1.30pm, telling her that Louis had died. An emotional Osborne said the boy’s parents had visited the school several times to try to get protection for their sons, but to no avail. “Every time the family complained or sent emails, the school just brushed it under the carpet,” she said. “The principal even went so far as to refer to this as a simple fistfight. There’s no simple fistfight when you’re hurting another child.” Osborne lashed out at the school for its failure to adequately deal with the matter, especially as it was allegedly infamous for incidents of bullying. She added that while the family were struggling to cope following the boy’s death, it had since prompted local residents to embark on an awareness campaign about bullying. Osborne said the whole community had been shaken by the death of the pupil, who she described as a “humble, helpful child who always tried to remain positive despite a tough childhood. He was the smallest little thing you have ever seen. He looked liked he was 10 years old. “He had all these big dreams.” The family reiterated that Louis and his younger brother had been repeatedly bullied by schoolmates for years, with hardly any intervention from the school. The Gauteng Department of Education confirmed being aware of the incident and said it was carrying out an investigation into the matter. “We have conveyed our sympathies to the family and have officials ready to offer counselling,” spokesperson Steve Mabona said. He refused to be drawn on allegations that Louis had been bullied, saying the department would be able to comment on that once all the facts had been gathered. The matter has been reported to the police, with Colonel Mack Mngomezulu confirming that an inquest into the death had been opened and that the police were awaiting a post-mortem to determine the cause. The Louis de Jonge incident comes after another attack came to light at a school in Tsakane, Springs, where a pupil suffered injuries after having boiling water poured on her by another classmate last week. According to the Education Department, the learner had an argument with a classmate, and after this, the rival pupil went to fetch boiling water and poured it over her. The classmate has since been arrested and suspended over the incident. Education psychologist Cara Blackie said yesterday that more work was needed to tackle bullying in schools. “What could definitely assist is more support and training for teachers, giving them more of an idea on identifying signs of bullying. “Bullying isn’t always so overt; it’s not always kids punching or saying horrible words. Bullying can take many different forms,” she said. Blackie stressed the need for schools to do more to tackle bullying, as they played a part in making it harder for learners to speak up. She said they had a responsibility to report any type of bullying to both the victim’s and the perpetrator’s families to show that such behaviour won’t be tolerated.