Over the weekend, the renowned musician performed his timeless hit songs Burnout and Shikisha at the Royal Heritage two-day festival in Thohoyandou, Venda. Speaking at the festival, which is rich in culture, music and lifestyle, Mabuse said: “Music plays a crucial role in maintaining culture. "There is also a level of consciousness which we should embrace, because without it we wouldn’t understand the kind of music that we consider cultural, that helps us maintain and gives us our own identity.” Mabuse said music was a catalyst and central to people’s interactive space where they come together, irrespective of their backgrounds. “If they love music and they love the kind of music they hear - whether it’s sung in a different language - it remains the music that people relate to,” he said. With the rich culture that South African music embraced, artists should try to learn from those who had come before them. “I have always maintained that culture is dynamic. "If we say to young musicians, don't advance your culture beyond where it has always been, then we are obviously limiting our ability to advance,” Mabuse said. “It’s important that young people understand who they are at a level of consciousness from which they can grow, without losing their identity." The legendary singer said it was important to guard against how musicians were portrayed in the media, which was a mirror of society. “I use Nigeria as an example, where they have taken their music to the rest of the world. "What stops us as Africans and South Africans from doing the same? "We would do ourselves a disservice if we don’t believe in what we have here” Local gospel singer Lebo Sekgobela, who performed her hit single Lion of Judah, said she was honoured, especially as an artist, to sing in Venda. The intergenerational audience were treated to a surprise performance by Molemo "Jub Jub" Maarohanye, who was released from prison earlier this year. Maarohanye walked onto the stage with shackles on his ankles and broke free once he performed his hit song Ndikhokhele. The final day of the festival featured performances by some great South African artists, such as Lira, Amanda Black, Sjava, OkMalumKoolKat and Dr Malinga, as well as a comeback performance by legendary local kwaito group TKZee. @Zwane_2li2ls