It is for this reason that Sidwell Tshingilane decided to start the Soweto Kota Festival. Many shops boast about being the best when it comes to creatively making the traditional kota, filling it with extras like ham, egg, lettuce and even burger fillings on top of the standard chips, atchaar and vienna combo. With social media, many outlets have managed to spread their culinary wings to areas outside of their own. “The kota has been here for a long time. In townships, the idea to have a festival came last year when someone complained about how they went to some event in Soweto and there was no kota in sight. So I developed the idea to do it. I wanted to do a food event on top of the cake festival. So it will be just about kotas,” said Tshingilane. FOOD AND FUN: Founder, Sidwell Tshingilane, promises two days of goodness at the festival. Picture: Xolani Motsei  The event, set to take place on Saturday, September 16 and Sunday, September 17, will be a fun family day out. Tshingilane said they were expecting about 30 vendors who would be putting their kota-making skills to good use. He said there would also be something for people with a sweet tooth. The two-day event will take place at the Soweto Theatre and the organisers are expecting about 3000 people to attend on each day. “There has been a lot of interest from people and there isn’t enough space to accommodate a large number on one day, so we have spread it out to two days,” said Tshingilane. He said they had also invited members from the tourism and small business development departments who may be interested in funding or helping businesses that had potential to grow. “We will also have a lot of entertainment for the children with jumping castles, beams and face painting. For the adults, there will also be a beer garden and some wine tasting.” There will also be live music and DJs for entertainment. CHOW DOWN: A customer digs into a kota at the media launch day for the festival. Picture: Xolani Motsei  Tshingilane has partnered with Sasko Bread and Parmalat for the festival. Nancy Arthur, a director with marketing firm Minanawe who represents Parmalat, said it was important to encourage brands to come to the townships. “Money power comes from black people and it often only goes back to corporates.” Collin Mkhize, national sales manager for Sasko, said partnering with the festival would also help to expand their brand across townships. “We can all agree that there is no kota without bread and with Sasko it makes it just that much better.” One of the vendors, Carol Dooms from Westbury, said the reason why she entered the festival was because she wanted to introduce a healthy way of making a kota. “Nothing in my kota is oil-based and we don’t add chips but have other health options instead.” Tickets to the first Soweto Kota Festival cost R50 for adults and R20 for children. There will be special prices for those who want a VIP experience at the event. @mane_mpi