There are only seven officers with criminal records, down from the 115 suspected rotten EMPD cops it had last year. The seven officers with criminal records - including murder, extortion and theft - are currently working and have not been disciplined or suspended. The revelation is contained in a written council reply by Vivienne Chauke, member of the mayoral committee (MMC) for community safety. She was replying to questions sent by DA councillor Wollaston Labuschagne. In Chauke’s written response, it emerged that Sydney Nkabinde, who was sentenced this month to an effective 15 years’ imprisonment for murder and corruption, still had the rank of inspector within the EMPD. Yesterday, EMPD spokesperson Wilfred Kgasago said this related to when Nkabinde was still part of mayor Mzwan-
dile Masina’s VIP protection unit, but that Nkabinde was “redeployed” to an administrative post pending the conclusion of his criminal case. Kgasago added that Nkabinde’s EMPD employment was “history”, but he still had to confirm with the chairperson of the internal disciplinary process. However, disclosures from Chauke’s reply also showed that: *  An officer guilty of culpable homicide is working in Tsakane; *  Two officers with extortion records are based in Tembisa; *  A corruption offender is in the Tracing Unit; *  An officer who hands out warrants of arrest is guilty of perjury; and *  A fines administrator was convicted of theft. Asked by Labuschagne whether any of the aforementioned criminals had been suspended, Chauke said: “No members of the EMPD are currently suspended.” The MMC added that she didn't have any information on officers who had successfully applied for criminal clearance, as officers applied for clearance “in their individual capacity”. However, Labuschagne was fuming yesterday over the number of criminal cops in Ekurhuleni, calling it “appalling” that “murderers are kept on the payroll”. “It is incredibly perturbing that such a large number of EMPD officials hold criminal records. The residents of Ekurhuleni should have faith in their police officers; how can this be when the police are criminals themselves?” Labuschagne asked. “It is yet to be seen if the newly appointed chief of police, General Isaac Mapiyeye, will take any action against officials who are guilty of ill-disciplined and criminal conduct,” he added. Kgasago conceded the prerequisite to become an EMPD officer was that you must not have a criminal record. Except for Nkabinde, all the rogue cops have suspended sentences for their crimes. Kgasago stressed that suspended sentences “stem from being guilty of a crime”. “I'm not a legal expert, so I wouldn't know (how the officers are still employed). However, I am going to speak to the labour department and the city's prosecutors to find out why these officers are still employed,” Kgasago promised. Labuschagne said although the number of officers with criminal records had decreased from 115 “in a previous council term”, he maintained that those same “criminals” were still working for the city. “This simply confirms that many of these officials have applied for criminal clearance,” he contended. Kgasago asked to be furnished with the names of the convicted cops, saying he would comment later on why they were still employed.