Yesterday marked a year since the musician, whose real name was Mduduzi Tshabalala, died after a battle with cancer. The multiple South African Music Award-winning Nkalakatha  hitmaker went on to sell in excess of 350000 units, making him a platinum-selling artist. In a bid to commemorate his death, a foundation was launched in his name at Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital in Joburg. This was the same medical facility at which the musician was treated. The foundation plans to offer support to others who are going through the same pain and discomfort caused by the illness. The cancer support programme will be led by his widow Mpho, who ironically was also celebrating her birthday yesterday as she launched the initiative in partnership with the Cancer Association of South Africa (Cansa). The association has been working with cancer patients for the past 86 years. Mpho told cancer patients at the hospital’s radiation and oncology ward, where her husband was a regular patient, that the Mandoza Foundation aimed to help those in need. This included raising awareness and detecting cancer in patients as soon as possible. The foundation would in particular embark on educational campaigns in townships throughout the country. “We are going to go out in the townships and educate people about cancer and encourage them to do annual tests.” Mpho added that she would also visit the radiation and oncology ward at the hospital to offer whatever support she could to patients as she understood their pain. She said the hospital had become her second home when her late husband was sick. “We’ve sat in these chairs and stood in these queues. This has been my second home.” Mpho pointed out that while she was in the hospital she would ask patients what they needed most, such as food or transport money, and would help them wherever she could. “Even if you just want to talk, I’ll be here for you.” Mpho also offered words of inspiration to the patients, insisting that being diagnosed with cancer wasn’t a death sentence. “If you are diagnosed with cancer, you are a survivor from that very day. “Turn your illness into wellness and understand
the importance of the power of the mind and positive thinking.” Mpho thanked the staff at the ward, saying everyone there was ready and willing to help patients and their families. These sentiments were echoed by Lucy Balona from Cansa, who told the room full of cancer patients that the hospital provided excellent care to those in need. She also stressed the importance of detecting cancer as early as possible. “The earlier you detect it, the earlier you can receive treatment and start recovering.” Balona said Cansa was thrilled to be working with the Mandoza Foundation to educate communities and offer support to residents. She urged people from all walks of life to help them do so by donating to the fund. Balona announced that their efforts to find funding were proving successful, as
the radio station Jacaranda FM had donated R50 000 yesterday. During the launch, volunteers from the organisation handed out T-shirts to cancer patients that bore the Mandoza Foundation logo. On the back of the T-shirts was written: “Hope for me and you. I have been there and now I am stronger than ever before.” The patients also enjoyed a meal and beverage that were given to them as they enjoyed the day’s proceedings.