It was launched last week at the Goodman Gallery in Joburg. The show displays various mediums depicting “counter memories” through the use of photographs, drawings, paintings and installation pieces. This exhibition is the final instalment of a three-part series Chiurai began. The other two exhibitions were Revelations in 2011 and Genesis (Je * ’isi isi) last year. For this exhibition, the pieces will be spread across two sites, with part two of the show being shown at Constitution Hill on Saturday. On this occasion, Chiurai will screen four new films showing the concepts behind the works on display at the gallery. In We Live in Silence, he dissects the 1967 drama Soleil Ô through similarities by recreating scenes intercut with visual references from popular culture and art historical sources to stage alternative colonial histories and futures. These references aim to reject the notion that African migrants are to think, speak and understand language like their colonisers. The exhibition also repositions the female role in recent struggle histories - recasting the lead character as a woman in the black liberation narrative to challenge the gender bias inherent in such narratives. The dual-location exhibition is a collaboration between the artist and photographer Jurie Potgieter, art director Dylan Lloyd, stylist Bee Diamondhead, set designer Johann Krynauw, director of photography Adam Benton, sound producer João Orecchia and performance director Lindiwe Matshikiza. Chiurai is an internationally acclaimed artist born in Zimbabwe in 1981. He studied at the University of Pretoria where he graduated with a  BA (fine arts). Born one year into  Zimbabwe’s emergence from white-ruled Rhodesia, Chiurai’s early work focused on the political, economic and social strife in his homeland. September, being heritage month, is also the month of Arts Alive and the oldest art fair in Africa - FNB Joburg Art Fair. Now in it’s 10th year, the fair will run from Friday to Sunday at the Sandton Convention Centre. It will feature over 60 exhibitions within five categories, including contemporary and modern art, solo presentations, limited editions and art platforms. The selected galleries and organisations are from 11 countries across Africa, Europe and the US. New to the FNB Joburg Art Fair, Cartier will be displaying jewellery and watch creations, and a selection of artworks created by students at Johannesburg-based art schools, The Artists Proof Studio and The Market Photo Workshop. This year, the addition of a film programme will be headlined by the Centre for the Less Good Idea, the brainchild of acclaimed South African artist William Kentridge. On Friday, the fair will be open from 11am to 8pm, on Saturday from 11am to 7pm, and Sunday from 11am to 5pm. Tickets are R150.