The Incredible Happenings Church leader said the aim of the lunch was to encourage women to open up about their past hurts, heal and look forward to the future. Mboro said the core of his ministry was women of all age groups, and that they somehow found it easy to confide in him and found comfort in his sermons. “The highest volume of women who come to the church are broken, discouraged and are going through a lot. "This is where I come in. Even if I see a story in the media, I make a point to go see the victim and pray for them. Many have been healed through my prayers,” said Mboro. According to him, the aim of his women’s ministry was to empower women victims. He also said he had provided full-time employment at his funeral parlour and construction business to some of them. One of the women in the congregation, who did not want to be identified, explained the role the prophet played in her life. “My life was terrible and everything was a mess. In 2011, I watched his television ministry and decided to visit the church, From that day my life was never the same,” said the woman, from Katlehong. She had had troubles with accommodation and the pastor had built her a home. Unfortunately, while she was staying there, a man had put a knife to her neck, covered her face with a pillow and raped her. “This was the hardest time of my life and nobody can ever fully comprehend the pain that one feels. "More so because I was abandoned at five years old and I have never had a true representation of love. Come to think of it, Mboro is by right my father,” she said. The woman said that after her ordeal, she attended counselling for a period but eventually stopped that because of all the terrible things the counsellors were saying about her spiritual father. Brian Blem, a Christian psychologist at Lighthouse Therapy Centre, said he believed that the clinic was encouraging the woman to stick to one form of healing, but he added that people were made of three elements - spirit, mind and body - and it was important to address the healing of all three elements equally. “Obviously rape is very traumatic, and in this case, the counsellor did not see it fit for the patient to seek spiritual counsel. "The spirit is not something clinical psychologists are equipped to handle,” Blem said. According to Shaheda Omar, clinical director at the Teddy Bear Foundation, therapy is not a quick fix and it was not in the best interest of the victim to abruptly stop attending the sessions. "When someone is broken, they need attention and constant emotional and psychological support. "Counselling serves as a fuel and refresher, therefore it needs to be ongoing. "There are plans and coping mechanisms put into place for the victim to cope with life." Another woman at the lunch shared similar sentiments about the help she received from Mboro. “I was raped by my biological brother and lost my mother at birth. My whole life was a misery, but since I came to the church, everything has changed. "I am able to show affection to my partner and I am at complete peace after the prophet prayed for me,” she said Mboro said his ministry officially began when he was 16 years old. He said he grew up depressed, sickly and tortured by nightmares. According to him, it was only after he received healing from Jesus that he was able to make others whole, and since then he had made it his lifelong mission to heal, deliver and "set the captive free".