Engels was reacting to an affidavit in which the Zimbabwe first lady claims Gabriella was “intoxicated and unhinged” when she allegedly tried to attack Mugabe with a knife. According to Gabriella, the fuming first lady barged into a hotel room where she and her friends were waiting to meet Mugabe’s son Bellarmine Chatunga. Gabriella claimed that Mugabe had assaulted her with an extension cord. Charges were laid against Mugabe, but Department of International Relations and Co-operation (Dirco) Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane granted the Zimbabwe first lady diplomatic immunity. In the affidavit, Mugabe labelled Gabriella’s allegations as “malicious” and said she was considering filing attempted murder charges against the 20-year-old model. But Engels found it “laughable”, saying Mugabe was “pathetic” and grasping at straws. “If my daughter had tried to stab her with a knife, why didn’t she go to the police and open a case the same night - why did she keep quiet if that was the case? “Also, how could my daughter get to her with a knife when she is surrounded by bodyguards?” Engels asked. “It boggles the mind that this woman comes up with these things. Aren’t her bodyguards trained to protect her when a 20-year-old can get to her with a knife?” In the affidavit, Mugabe claims Gabriella was in a fight with other women the night before the incident at the Sandton Taboo Nightclub, where Gabriella sustained her injuries, which were posted on social media. The pictures showed Gabriella with a cut on her head and forehead. Engels conceded to The Star that an altercation took place at Taboo on the night Mugabe referred to, but added that it was her daughter’s friends who were arguing with the unknown women and that Gabriella had “tried to stop the fight”. “She was with two of her friends that night. Her friends were in an altercation with women who were with the Mugabe boy. “I don’t know if Robert Jnr was there, but Bellarmine was there,” Engels said. “She (Gabriella) came into the parking lot and found her friends arguing with other women, and she tried to stop the fight.” Dirco spokesperson Clayson Monyela said there was no obligation for anyone, including Mugabe - who received diplomatic immunity from Dirco outside the country - to inform the department should charges be laid. “It’s a matter between them, the police and the courts if someone decides to lay charges, why would they go to Dirco? Her decision to lay criminal charges has got nothing to do with us whether she has immunity from us or not,” Monyela pointed out. Police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo refused to comment. Asked how her daughter was coping, Engels said Gabriella was doing much better, but that her life had been “turned upside down” since her ordeal. “It is going to be a long road for her because she is now limited as to where she can go. She must now think twice before she can go out for fear of people walking up to her and asking her a lot of questions.” @khayakoko88