Johannah Suteka, 49, has accused the company of refusing to take responsibility for the theft. Suteka, of Monsterlus, now has to take four taxis to get to her job about 40km away, which costs her R1200 a month. This comes after her VW Polo TSI mysteriously disappeared from the Bidvest McCarthy VW dealership in Wonderboom, Pretoria, in April. Neither the police nor her tracking company could recover it. The car was taken there to have its sunroof fixed but was nowhere to be found three days later when Suteka’s nephew went to fetch it. “The service adviser checked the entire dealership and the yard; he could not find my car,” she said. She and her husband later visited the dealership and the manager, William Nduli, was also dumbfounded as to how the theft could have happened. He allegedly advised her to claim from her insurance. “This was frustrating and emotionally draining. I asked him ‘how could I claim from my insurance when my car was stolen from their possession and in their premises’,” she said. Walter Pretorius, Nduli’s superior, also advised her to approach her insurance company. As the insurance was in the process of settling the R190000 balance owing the car with the bank, Suteka decided to reverse the transaction upon realising that the dealership was backtracking on its alleged promise of replacing her car. “I did that because it would have ruined my credit record and the dealership did not want to take any responsibility,” she said. Nduli and Pretorius did not want to comment on the matter. However, VW South Africa spokesperson Matt Gennrich said the dealer’s terms and conditions on the job-card made it clear that customers left their cars at the dealership at their own risk. “The dealer has, however, made an offer to settle the outstanding balance on the car plus refund the initial deposit and offered a reasonable deal on a replacement vehicle. While we understand and empathise with the customer, as the theft occurred on the premises of an independent dealership, this needs to be resolved between Mrs Suteka and the dealership,” Gennrich said. McCarthy Limited spokesperson Preeban Munian said the incident happened when the dealership was undergoing building upgrades and the CCTV cameras were off. He said they paid R190000 that was still owed on the car and also reimbursed Suteka’s original deposit on the car, and that they had no further obligations to her. They consider the matter closed, he said. However, Suteka said it was not a fair settlement. She demands that the company not only pay off the R190 000 but also the R158 000 she had already paid in car instalments and the travelling costs in trying to resolve the matter. Peter Nkhuna, a senior assistant ombudsman, at the Ombudsman for the Short-term Insurance, said the company could not simply escape liability as it owed the customer a duty of care, which would include that it must exercise due care in handling the customer’s vehicle and ensuring its safety. He added that the disclaimer was not enough for the company’s defence. National Consumer Commission (NCC) spokesperson Trevor Hattingh said the supplier has a responsibility to hold and account for a consumer’s property in terms of Section 65 of the Consumer Protection Act, which states that they must treat the vehicle with utmost care as theirs. “The consumer can, in this regard, approach the NCC with a complaint and we will be able to assist,” said Hattingh. @lindilesifile