Of the 58, 16 will not open in time for spring day as they are still undergoing minor repairs, while five others will remain closed for an indefinite period as a result of vandalism, ongoing construction or structural defects. Member of the mayoral committee for community development councillor Nonhlanhla Sifumba recently toured the 58 public pools to assess their readiness ahead of the swimming season, which runs until April. The MMC was impressed with the condition of many of them and commended caretakers who had gone beyond the call of duty to ensure their readiness. She said public pools formed part of the city’s commitment to improving the quality of life of its residents in line with the 10-point mayoral plan. She said these facilities played an important role in keeping children off the streets when they were not in school. “These pools are such a happy place for kids. Their faces look priceless when they take a splash in the pool." Sifumba commended residents who had reclaimed their pools from criminals so that their children could have a safe place to play. The pools that will open on spring day are Rabie Ridge in Region A; Kensington B, Blairgowrie, Linden, Newclare, Riverlea, Robin Hills, Roosevelt Park, Vrededorp, Verity Park and Windsor West in Region B; Florida Lake, Little Falls and Florida North in Region C; Power Park, Senaoane, Noordgesig, Orlando West, Dobsonville and Diepkloof in Region D; Sydenham and Zoo Lake in Region E; Ellis Park, Forest Hill, Hofland Park, Malvern, Moffat Park, Pioneer Park, Southern Suburbs, Yeoville, Rhodes Park and Turffontein in Region F; and Eldorado Park Extension 4, Eldorado Park Extension 9, Lenasia Extension 2, Lenasia Extension 5, Eldorado Park Proper, Lenasia South, Lenasia Extension 10, Orange Farm and Ennerdale in Region G. Pools not expected to open are Mayfair and Newville in Region B, Paterson Park in Region E, and Murray Park and Robertsham in Region F. All the pools cater for adults and children. Most of them also offer swimming lessons. Each pool has one or more qualified lifeguards. Other staff include a superintendent, supervisors, cloakroom attendants, and cashiers where admission is not free.