Cape Town - Alleged gang boss Jerome “Donkie” Booysen survived a second attempt on his life in less than six months, when gunmen opened fire on his car. The suspected leader of the Sexy Boys and 26s was unharmed after he was shot at while driving home after an auction he had attended on Wednesday night. The attack happened at Sacks Circle in Bellville South shortly after 6pm. It is believed that a silver SUV with four occupants had sped up to Booysen’s three-vehicle convoy. Read: Alleged Cape gang boss shot in drive-by A source says the SUV slowed down, matching the speed of Booysen’s Porsche Cayenne, and opened fire. The shooters fired more than 50 rounds, and 21 bullet holes were counted in the Porsche. However, Booysen was not in the car. None of the other vehicles in the convoy were targeted. Booysen then went to report the matter at the Bellville South Police Station, leaving the Porsche at the scene. Police confirmed that six 9mm cartridges and one R5 cartridge were found on the scene, while Booysen handed two 9mm rounds and one R5 projectile in at the police station, which he had found inside the Porsche. This is the second attempt on Booysen’s life this year. In May, he was shot in the neck in a drive-by shooting in Ravensmead, near Elsies River. It’s believed he took a wrong turn in the area and was targeted by a rival gang. Police spokesperson, Captain FC van Wyk, says: “An attempted murder case is under investigation following a shooting incident [on Wednesday] night in Sacks Circle, Bellville South. Investigations continue.” Also read: Alleged Cape gang boss 'plots revenge from hospital' Three years ago, evidence was heard in the Cape Town Regional Court implicating Booysen as being part of Specialised Protection Services, which at that point had provided security to 156 entertainment venues in the Western Cape, with 258 bouncers. The company was deregistered because it was not a member of the statutory body regulating private security, Psira. Businessman Mark Lifman and former SPS boss Andre Naude, close associates of Booysen, were later acquitted on 313 counts. Booysen was also a suspect in the death of another underworld figure, Cyril Beeka, who was shot dead by an assassin on a motorbike, also in Bellville South, in a hail of bullets in 2011. Daily Voice