Mashaba’s outburst came after the Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) circulated messages via social media urging its members to march to the City of Joburg’s headquarters to support tomorrow’s motion of no confidence against Mashaba and his Speaker, Vasco da Gama. While Mashaba appears concerned only about the MKMVA, Cosatu and the SACP have also vowed to march to his office tomorrow as part of the Section77 national strike initiated by Cosatu. Last week, Cosatu and the SACP accused Mashaba of laying “flimsy disciplinary charges" against their members. Thousands of Cosatu members are expected to march to the city centre before going to the banks to demand the “end of state capture”. The ANC filed a motion of no confidence against Mashaba and Da Gama earlier this month but the council’s programming committee rejected the motion, saying it had not been filed according to council rules. That prompted the ANC to approach the high court in Joburg, asking it to force the city to hold the motion via a secret ballot. Arguments on the matter are expected to be heard tomorrow. But Mashaba was shocked by the determination of the military veterans to march against him, saying: “I can only surmise that the reason behind the interest is to protect the ANC’s patronage networks which previously allowed them to loot state coffers for their benefit. “I have been advised that the city will soon receive a full report based on an independent forensic investigation into the previous administration’s decision to purchase a 900km fibre broadband network at a cost of R1.3 billion,” Mashaba said. He said preliminary findings of the report indicated that a number of high-profile individuals associated with the ANC have been linked to the city’s decision to purchase the fibre network. “Specifically, it would appear that two senior members of the MKMVA held an interest in the companies benefiting from the purchase of the broadband network, benefiting by almost R200million. "Why was this permitted? “The preliminary findings also strongly indicate that the same senior members of the MKMVA were, from the outset, deeply involved in manipulating the city’s tender process with respect to the deal,” he said. Mashaba did not name the two senior MKMVA members. MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe had earlier accused the DA of hypocrisy, saying the DA had mobilised its members to march to Parliament ahead of a motion of no confidence vote in President Jacob Zuma last month. MKMVA national executive committee member Carl Niehaus said they would march against Mashaba, accusing him of failing to implement policies aimed at “addressing the plight of military veterans”. “These issues include the lack of housing and healthcare for veterans. This is why the MKMVA supports a motion of no confidence in him,” Niehaus said.