The MTN MegaStar contest finally gets to Joburg this weekend in the countrywide 
hunt for the next musical sensation. It has already visited and found potential megastars in Durban, Polokwane, Cape Town and Port Elizabeth. “If you think you have what it takes to be the next big musical star, then this is your last opportunity to flex your vocal cords and show the judges what you have,” the competition organisers said. Those who beat thousands of competitors to the top will win an international recording contract and the chance to work with one of the most successful artists in the world. “The grand prize winner will walk away with a once-
in-a-lifetime opportunity of signing a recording deal with Temple Records and the renowned US-based producer Mike Will.” The American record producer, rapper, singer and songwriter has worked with award-winning artists such as Beyoncé, Rihanna and Kendrick Lamar. Auditions will also be judged by some of the best in the business such as radio veteran T-Bo Touch, rappers KO and Kwesta, and TV personality, model, and performer Nomuzi Mabena. The judging panel will select 10 contestants from the five auditions across the country. “The top 10 contestants will be housed in a mansion in Steyn City where they will be required to perform and complete allocated tasks,” the organisers said. The judging process would not consider only singing talent but also commitment, hard work and people’s skills. The public also play a big role as contestants are eliminated on a weekly basis based on their votes. Those who vote for their favourites will also be rewarded as one lucky subscriber stands a chance to drive away with a sporty Audi A1 and others could win a range of weekly prizes. Joburg auditions take place on Saturday at The Maslow Hotel in Sandton from 10am. If you don’t get a chance to come and sing your heart, you can still enter digitally. “Those who can’t make it to the auditions will not be left out in the cold, as MTN MegaStar will allow contestants to audition online by uploading a short video on MTN Play.” Those who enter via mtnplay.co.za will be given a chance to receive an express pass at the regional auditions. Online auditions close at midnight tomorrow. To upload your video, go to http://mtn-megastars.appspot.com/, create an account, enter all the details required and follow the online prompts. You can enter as many clips as you like, but the last one that is uploaded will be the one the judges will consider. To qualify for both an online or a live audition, you must be a South African citizen aged 18 years or older and a “free agent”, meaning that you shouldn’t currently be bound by any other professional recording contract.