This was according to a recent study which found the biggest topics of conversation post-sexual activity was what ladies told their girlfriends. South African women, as well as those from 20 other countries, participated in the survey conducted by Victoria Milan, an online dating network for married and attached people looking to cheat. The findings were based on responses from 8407 of its active female members on what they took notes on during sex to talk about with their girlfriends. Victoria Milan Founder and chief executive Sigurd Vedal said it shouldn’t come as a surprise that the details of a mattress marathon would be shared by women. “Women share intimate details with each other as it shows they can attract amazing men who take care of them both inside and outside the bedroom.” One of the biggest topics was the size of his “equipment”. “The size of a man’s penis is the first thing women from Ireland, Poland and South Africa will ask their girlfriends, and if it wasn’t the right size, what’s important is how he made up for it,” said Vedal. But he said that if a man is less-well-endowed, he should be relieved to know it’s not the make or break of his bedroom rating. “Technique with fingers, tongues and spending time ensuring she is fully satisfied will count for more than massive size.” Duration of the encounter is also a hot topic of conversation for women - especially those from Belgium, Finland and Norway. While manscaping is also a big talking point, it’s of particular interest for the ladies from the US, Australia and Denmark. “They will be checking to see whether a man is trimmed, waxed, shaved, styled or au naturel from the top of his head to the tips of his toes,” he reckons. Pre-lovemaking chats were important to women from France, Spain and the UK, the study revealed. Vedal said words whispered between the sheets, his command in the bedroom as well as nervous chatter or complete silence are also relayed by women to their girlfriends after the event. Other issues women told their friends included the smell and taste of a man, as well as his stamina.