Shine Studios in Braamfontein was the place to be for all things fashionably heritage on Wednesday night. An exclusive runway show was held by Edcon and Proudly South African to launch the Edcon group’s new spring summer in-house collections and to profile ranges of the Design Innovation Challenge. Under the theme Heritage Through Fashion, up-and-coming designers such as Arnold Phasha, Shaylene Morris and Lameez Stoltenkamp showcased their labels Ageo, Bi Parel and Urban Outlaw69, respectively. The designers were the ultimate winners in the challenge earlier this year. ETHEREAL: Young designers, part of the Edcon Innovation Design Challenge, showcased their work at the #wearlocal Heritage through Fashion Runway preview. Picture: Dimpho Maja  The Edcon and Proudly SA partnership is aimed at highlighting the benefits of the buy local campaign. Fashion icon David Tlale opened and closed the show with his new lines, commissioned by Edgars, which will be available in select Edgars stores from November. PINK PRINT: David Tlale's range will be available in select Edgars stores from November. Picture: Dimpho Maja  Edcon Design Innovation Challenge interns’ collections showcased will also be available in Edgars stores at the Mall of Africa, Sandton City, Mall of the North, Gateway Mall, Century City and Menlyn. Minister of Small Business Development Lindiwe Zulu said it took a lot to make the night happen. "In order to be here it takes people who are willing to support the cause. Let's help open up the markets for the young designers. The space has been closed for black South Africans in particular, through Edcon and Proudly SA we will be able to make sure that what we saw finds its way to the market. When we talk about radical transformation, it is about changing the ownership patterns of the means of production in the country.The retail sector makes it almost impossible. It's about enabling them to get into the mainstream of the economy, we want to see them ten years down the line. Our responsibility is to create a conducive environment for small businesses." BLUSHING BEAUTY: A range from one of the designers who took part in the Innovation Design Challenge. Picture: Dimpho Maja  She said a lot of the times South Africans liked to think of themselves as not being African, saying there was an African market South Africans weren't exposing themselves to. "This month is heritage month. Let's show that this is it. Walk out with something that truly says your are African, something that is local. I think our history made us feel like if you are not wearing Gucci or fancy designers then you don't have it." Proudly SA chief executive Eustace Mashimbye said the upcoming fashion show and launch of new ranges in Edgars and Jet stores was part of their commitment to creating more local content for South African consumers. “Edcon has increased the number of locally manufactured lines from 18% to over 50%, and including lines from their Design Innovation Challenge and introducing a high-end designer such as David Tlale is truly exciting for us. We can push the Buy Local to Create Jobs message in the knowledge that Edcon is rising to the challenge of meeting the demand for local products” PATTERN CHIC: These stylish looks by David Tlale will be available in select Edgars stores from November. Picture: Dimpho Maja  He added that the textile and clothing manufacturing industries had gone from being in danger of extinction from the challenge of cheap imports to re- inventing themselves. Mashimbye said they were proud of the partnership with Edcon- the only retailer in the sector that is a Proudly SA member company. "The fact that we are currently sitting at 63% of everything in in Edgars and Jet is locally made. I have seen the jobs that have been created through this kind of initiative. Households that are maintained by people who are maintained by those factories, who will benefit through your decision to move your local content to above 50%. We are proud of the work Edcon is doing." WINNER: A look from young designer Lameez Stoltenkamp, whose range won the best overall in the Innovation Design Challenge. Picture: Dimpho Maja Edcon chief executive Bernie Brookes said the partnership with Proudly South African was significant in helping to achieve the goal of increasing sourcing of locally manufactured merchandise. "Edcon has committed itself to playing its role in helping grow jobs in the sector. We also have an initiative aimed at harnessing the talents of our youth through the Edcon Innovation Design Challenge." The Edcon Design Innovation Challenge initiative, launched in September last year, saw 16 postgraduate students from Gauteng design colleges selected. The finalists were all placed in one-year internships to give them hands-on experience. @mane_mpi