The SABC television programme involves aspiring designers completing a range of tasks to ultimately win the grand prize of being the fashion icon’s assistant designer.  The winner will also receive a studio to the value of R250 000. After hundreds of people around the country applied to be a contestant, only 12 made it onto our TV screens. As the hit local show comes to a close, just four designers, whose passion for fashion, skills and stamina have been tested time and time again, remain behind. They are Keletso Mo-
raba, Cyla Gonsolves, Kuena Moshoeshoe and Samuel Mosala. Together with the eliminated contestants, they had to complete a range of tasks as part of the show. While their efforts have paid off as they emerged as the last four candidates from hundreds of applicants, they said they haven’t slept much since the show started. The group all agree that one of the most difficult aspects of being a contestant on The Intern is the lack of sleep. “One of the biggest challenges is the lack of sleep; we could fall asleep right now,” said Moshoeshoe. Gonsolves agreed and added: “The most sleep we had was five hours a night.” Moraba said the lack of time at their disposal meant they sometimes didn’t have a chance to attend to their personal hygiene. “There have been times where we went straight to the elimination round without showering.” Another thing that has been challenging has been being away from their loved ones for so long. But the group said their families had been very supportive and that they had also been there for each other. “We cry to each other, we complain to each other but we also help each other; we’re like a family now,” said Gonsolves. “Even though David makes us cry sometimes,
he is firm and he knows what he wants and is such a good mentor,” said Moshoeshoe. Tlale said the fashion industry wasn’t for weaklings and that he was proud of the four finalists. The finalists believe it was their signature styles which kept them in the contest. Moraba has a sophisticated, elegant and high-end take on fashion, Mo-
shoeshoe’s style is more arty and futuristic, Gonsolves’ signature is quirky while Mosala prides himself in simple, fitted attire. “David said he wished he could clone us and make us into one. “He sees all these qualities in each of us, and we are ready and prepared for any one of us to win,” said Mosala. Catch The Intern on Wednesdays at 7.30pm on SABC3.