He told Weekend Argus he would never condone his 15-year-old daughter’s behaviour and was taking "drastic action" for her future. Last week Weekend Argus highlighted an incident in which the girl was videoed holding a 14-year-old boy by the neck, pushing him and swearing at him. A few minutes later another, bigger boy enters the frame and punches the first boy in the face. Other pupils can be heard egging the girl on and mocking the victim for being beaten by a girl. All three children involved are in Grade 9. The incident took place after school in the school grounds a week ago and the school was due to hold a disciplinary hearing against the girl and bigger boy, 15, next term. Declining to be named to protect the identity of his daughter, the father said he was now looking for a new school for her. He said he would inform the principal of the new school about what had happened. “I have no faith in the disciplinary process of De Kuilen and I need to secure my child’s future,” he said. The father met the principal of a prospective new school yesterday and his daughter will have a one-on-one session with the principal on Monday, after which the school will decide whether to admit her. After the De Kuilen video circulated widely in the Kuils River area last week, the girl posted a WhatsApp voice note in which she crudely defended her actions and verbally attacked the boy at the receiving end of the bullying. Her father was unaware of the offending voice note until it was brought to his attention by Weekend Argus. “I am actually shaking now,” he said after hearing the voice note, in which the girl alleges the bullying victim sexually assaulted other female pupils. The father, a deputy principal at a Cape Town primary school, said he was shocked when he watched the incriminating video of his daughter’s behaviour last week. He is divorced and she lives with her mother in Kuils River. The father said he was now discussing the possibility of moving the girl to a southern suburbs school and having her live with him. “My daughter and her mother were recently held up at gunpoint and she is suffering from hypertension,” he said. He said he did not want to make excuses for his daughter’s behaviour. He said his daughter had since deleted her Facebook and WhatsApp accounts and had “suffered much” as a result of a public backlash. The parents of the two alleged bullies have apologised to the smaller boy and his parents. There was talk last week of sexual harassment charges being laid against the victim, but that was blamed on “the heat of the moment”. A police case was opened against the two bullies. All three pupils involved were suspended for the last week of term. They have all been told that they may return to school when schools reopen on October 9. The girl’s father said the disciplinary process might be wrapped up during the first week of the new school term. The family had introduced new rules regarding the girl’s cellphone. “She is more than grounded,” he said. Read: VIDEO: Boy, 14, assaulted in video The provincial education department this week told Weekend Argus of another video doing the rounds on social media. The incident involved pupils from De Grendel High School in Tijgerhof, Milnerton and reportedly happened off school premises in March this year. Meanwhile, the Department of Basic Education has painted a bleak picture of incidents of school bullying around the country. A national survey in 2016/2017 revealed that almost 70% of respondents admitted they had bullied others or have themselves been bullied. In May, the department released figures of studies by the Centre for Justice and Crime Prevention and the Youth Research Unit of the Bureau of Market Research at Unisa. The figures showed 46.8% of people between the ages of 12 and 24 had experienced some form of cyberbullying. A total of 21.46% of high school pupils said they had been approached with “unwanted talk about sex”, and 17.79% had received e-mails or instant messages with advertisements or links to X-rated websites. The figures showed 16.95% had opened messages or links with pictures of naked people or people having sex, while 16.6% had been asked for sexual information about themselves. A total of 14.27% were worried or felt threatened by online harassment and 9.9% said they had been asked to “do something sexual”. The national survey also found that male adolescents were more likely to engage in unsafe online activities. In the Western Cape, 60 incidents of bullying were reported in the first half of this year compared with 33 over the same period in 2016. On Thursday, provincial education MEC Debbie Schäfer said the recent reports of bullying, in the Western Cape and across the country, were disturbing. “Bullying and school safety in general are issues of great concern to me and about which I exercise my mind regularly as to how best to address them. Respect for human dignity is one of the values enshrined in our constitution and bullying is a denial of this.” Provincial education department spokesperson Jessica Shelver said it was concerned that the number of incidents reported was not an accurate reflection of the number of actual incidents at schools. “Many schools deal with cases internally without reporting them to the Safer Schools Programme. Unfortunately, many case go unreported and the department is therefore not able to intervene.” Shelver said anti-bullying campaigns at schools were making a difference. “We are encouraged by the commitment of our schools and educators to tackle bullying. For example, 200 schools in the metro south district participated in an anti-bullying campaign and signed pledges to oppose bullying.” The department said some schools ran very successful anti-bullying campaigns. One school had “bullying gardens”, where older and younger pupils worked together to create a garden - preferably a food garden - to supplement feeding schemes. Others hold “paired reading” sessions where an older and a younger pupil team up. “We are informed that the relationships that are built there prevent the older learners bullying the younger ones, as they then know them and like them,” said Shelver. One school the department visited had “bully benches” where a special bench is set aside for people who are feeling sad and other pupils are encouraged to assist them. On the issue of cellphones, the department said that each school had to develop a policy to regulate the use of social media and social networking. The national department has issued guidelines on social media and social networking at school to all public schools, and called on all principals, teachers and members of school governing bodies to familiarise themselves with them. The guidelines can be found on the WCED website https://wcedonline.westerncape.gov.za under “Circulars”. Safer Schools Call Centre for counselling and advice, 0800 45 46 47. Children can also call Childline SA on 0800 055 555. Weekend Argus