This is according to Captured in Africa, a wildlife organisation which works with the wild cats. Founder and director Drew Abrahamson told The Star that the animals had been roaming the Fochville area for about five weeks now. She said there were no known lion-breeding farms, sanctuaries or Big Five reserves in the farming and mining town situated on the outskirts of the province and that no individual owners had come forward to claim ownership. “We’re not sure where the lions come from and it’s still very much a mystery.” Abrahamson said private ownership was illegal and that those who own the lions might now be too scared to come forward to claim them. She said a permit was needed to own the wild cats and that a long list of requirements needed to be met to keep them. This included enclosure and fencing requirements. “No one should be keeping lions at home because they are wild animals.” Initially it was thought that just one lion was on the loose but it has since been discovered that there are five. Abrahamson said the pride was sighted on CCTV footage, which had since been posted  on social media. Authorities also discovered the corpses of dead calves believed to have been eaten by the lions. The Fochville community, together with Captured in Africa and the police, have been on the hunt for the lions. Police spokesperson Captain Appel Ernst said they had been on alert since a lion was spotted in the area. “The police have been vigilantly searching the area, and big cat activity was noticed at watering holes,” she said. “Tracks and dung were found which were confirmed to be that of lion.” Abrahamson added that, together with the authorities, her organisation had also been searching for the animals, especially at night and during the early hours of the morning, as lions are nocturnal. “On Saturday night, we had a call-out lasting about six hours and ending at around 3am on Sunday morning.” She said bait was put out in the trees around a particular area in a bid to track the animals. She added that the Fochville area is reasonably big and that lions sleep roughly 23 out of 24 hours a day. Abrahamson said the lions might be increasingly distressed as they were unsure of their surroundings. It should be remembered that they were dangerous animals, and those who come into contact with them should exercise caution. “The community should stay indoors if possible, drive rather than walk and keep pets and children indoors.” If someone came into direct contact with a lion, Abrahamson urged the person to avoid running and rather be still and avoid eye contact with the animal. “Don’t turn your back and keep the lion in your sight. Rather walk backwards while keeping one eye on the lion and the other on what is behind you.” Ernst stressed that the Fochville community should be vigilant and to report any sightings of the animals to the police. Anyone who sees the lions should call Warrant Officer Esterhuysen on 079 895 0526 or 076 799 5371. The Star