This relates to the leasing of a building that was subject to a public protector investigation. In the court application, the commission wanted an order setting aside some of their decisions regarding the leasing agreements for the new building which will lapse in 2020. They moved into the building in 2010. The commission wanted the court to set aside the decision taken in 2009 to accept Abland Consortium’s tender application. The IEC had also applied for condonation after filing the review application late, but the court dismissed this as well, saying there was no good reason for the delay. The building lease debacle led to the resignation of advocate Pansy Tlakula as the chief electoral officer in 2014 following allegations that she had acted inappropriately. The ruling in effect clears Tlakula of any wrongdoing. Before the national and provincial elections on May 7, 2014, several political parties took Tlakula to court, claiming her integrity had been compromised. This followed an investigation by then-public protector Thuli Madonsela into procurement of the Riverside Office Park building in Centurion, Pretoria. Madonsela found Tlakula had a relationship, possibly of a romantic nature, with then chairman of Parliament’s finance portfolio committee, Thaba Mufamadi. He was a shareholder in Abland, which was awarded the R320 million contract to lease the building. A subsequent report by the National Treasury found the process was neither fair, transparent, nor cost-effective. It found Tlakula did not give guidance or formally inform various individuals what was expected of them in the process. The commission now wanted to set aside decisions taken when Tlakula was still at the helm. One of the reasons the commission needed to urgently move from their old premises, according to court papers, is that it had “inadequate ablutions, soiling of carpets by sewerage and an expected increase in rental by 42%”. In his court judgement, Judge DS Fourie said: “The relief sought indicates not only a review and setting aside of the impugned decisions, but that new procurement process will also have to be instituted. No facts have been pleaded by the commission to explain whether any meaningful result will be achieved if the relief sought, is granted.” He said if the order was granted, it would prejudice the company that won the tender. Fourie dismissed the application with costs.