The Star on Monday revealed that the preferred candidate, B Makatu, scored only the third highest points during the interview with the panel but got the position instead of another candidate, R Mabaso, who received the highest score. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi, who revealed this information through a legislature reply to the DA, said Makatu’s appointment was approved after discussions between the panel and the school governing body (SGB). In Lesufi’s replies, the panel said Makatu had scored low points as she was an “inexperienced deputy principal who had only primary school management experience and wouldn't meet the curriculum needs of a secondary school”. H Hendricks, who was the community’s preferred candidate, scored the second highest points, and his ejection from the hiring process led to public violence last month. The community said the procedure was flawed and kept secret from them. The national Department of Education is currently investigating the matter and a report is expected soon. Yesterday, Sadtu’s general secretary in Gauteng, Tseliso Ledimo, said there was nothing untoward in the process followed to hire Makatu. “This process is called ratification. The panel can have discussions about the priority list with the SGB, and recommendations can be made there. “The interview scores alone don’t make a final determination, because other things like the race, gender and age of the candidate also come into play. "The final recommendation is then sent to the department for approval,” said Ledimo. He said the department, as the employer, could make the final decision. The department would need to motivate for any diversion from the recommendations made by the panel and the SGB. Ledimo said the involvement of the community in the appointment of a desired candidate would cause problems. “The community shouldn’t be unhappy about this process because it is in the government policy. The community has limited access to information of hiring professionals. If we open that process to community structures we will have chaos. They will start dictating who should be hired. The provincial department’s intervention was sufficient and it did not need the involvement of the national structure,” said Ledimo. The residents, however, have a different opinion. Speaking on behalf of the Greater Eldorado Park Business Community, Charis Pretorius said the process of shortlisting was kept a secret from the community, and that their preferred candidate was Hendricks because she managed to raise the school’s matric pass rate from 30% to 60% when she was acting as the school’s principal between 2015 and 2016. The school last had a permanent principal in 2015. “All we want is the right person to do the job and we believe that Hendricks can do the job because she has the support of the teachers. We don’t know this Makatu they have appointed or how she was appointed. If things were done correctly, why didn’t they appoint Mabaso, because he had good points?” asked Pretorius. National Professional Teachers Organisation of SA general secretary Basil Manuel said the entire process was “peculiar”. “Clearly there was a supersession in this matter and there must be a reason for that. We are still waiting for an official report from the MEC before we can comment,” he said. @lindilesifile