A TRIBUTE concert to the late Ray Phiri is set to be staged at the monthly Ekurhuleni Comes Alive Jazz Evening.
Friday September 8 will be the first time all the members of Stimela play a set without one of their founding members - the late lead vocalist and guitarist Phiri - in a tribute show. Jazzman Mahlakgane, organiser of the event and a good friend of Phiri, said it was befitting to have the show dedicated to Phiri. “His legacy lives on and Stimela continue to exist. When I first spoke to Hotstix Mabuse and told him I was thinking of having the band come in and play at the show, he was in.” The last time the saxophonist played at Boksburg’s Birchwood Hotel was when he was with Phiri for a tribute concert in December. “Stimela never disappoint. When you hear them play, it will bring back all the memories.”  The evening will see the original members, Isaac Mtshali, Lloyd Lelosa, Jabu Sibumbe, Thapelo Kgomo and Ntokozo Zungu, perform, with Mabuse guest-performing on two songs. "I will be guest appearing just to pay homage to my friend and reminding myself of him. Last year we gave a riveting performance. I won't be imposing on the band and will come in for two or three songs. For me it will ultimately be about going out to send a special tribute to my friend," said Mabuse about the performance. The band, formed in the late 1970s, were initially called The Cannibals, and changed their name to Stimela after being stranded in Mozambique for three months, having to sell their belongings and travel back to SA by train. Kgomo and Zungu joined the band after they decided to expand. Mtshali is the drummer, Kgomo and Lesola are on keyboard, Zungu is on guitar and Sibumbe on bass. Those in attendance can expect to hear favourites like Whispers in the Deep, Come To Me, Phinda Mzala and Where Did We Go Wrong. Mahlakgane said the evening would bring back the nostalgia of the night when Phiri was there to perform with the band. The Soweto Opera Quadro will also be performing. The group blend classic, opera, jazz and afro pop music to their tunes. There will also be two comedic acts on the night - Schoolboy and Tsheledi Moneymore. Tickets to the evening, taking place at the Birchwood Hotel, cost R450 (inclusive of a three-course meal), and the show starts at 8pm.