This will also facilitate transport to and from Alexandra. At the launch this week, mayor Herman Mashaba said in the past two years the city has been active in and around Sandton to improve pavements, and build two new bridges over the M1 to improve connectivity between Sandton and its neighbouring Alexandra. This would pave the way for the introduction of the Rea Vaya services along with constructing a dedicated public transport loop around the Sandton CBD, Mashaba said. “The revitalisation of road space through infrastructural investment in Sandton is critical to the economic growth of the city. "The dedicated public transport lane will be operationalised in partnership with the Gautrain, Putco, Metrobus and minibus taxis to improve access to public transport, reduce travelling times and making it more convenient to travel,” Mashaba said. There is a dedicated public transport lane called the Sandton Public Transport Loop along Rivonia Road, Fredman Drive and 5th Street, and includes stops and shelters with information for passengers as to which bus stops where. Operations get under way on September 18 and initially the city will be seeking public feedback on whether it is meeting its intended objective, the mayor said. This transport loop is being implemented in partnership with the Sandton Central Management District. It also forms part of the introduction of the next phase of the Rea Vaya to Alexandra, Sandton and Midrand through Louis Botha Avenue from Hillbrow and Joburg's improved public transport facilities. This includes 17 additional new Rea Vaya stations; a public transport interchange next to Pan Africa in Alexandra; upgrading surrounding roads, pavements and intersections. Mashaba said since the inception of the road infrastructure projects, the city has spent about R226m in Sandton and Alexandra and created over 149 jobs. The number of commuters travelling to Sandton from different parts of the city, including Alexandra, Soweto, Orange Farm, Ivory Park, Diepsloot and other suburbs has increased by 3.4% per annum and is likely to continue to increase by more than 4% per annum, he said. “Through these infrastructure upgrades we are improving our residents’ access to economic opportunities and a better life for them and their families. "The decades-long neglect of infrastructure maintenance means there is still a huge mountain to climb to effectively address our city’s ageing roads and traffic challenges," Mashaba added. "But this administration is committed to addressing the city’s challenges for the benefit of all our residents."