Durban - An estate agent has been arrested for the murder of Gona Pillay, the former Southlands Secondary School principal killed on Wednesday night. Captain Nqobile Gwala, police provincial spokesperson confirmed that a 24-year-old suspect was arrested “He has been charged with house robbery, murder and attempted murder. The Pillay’s Mercedes Benz, taken on the night of the attack, was also recovered in the Umbumbulu area. The man will appear in the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court  next week. More arrests are imminent, said Gwala. It is alleged that Pillay and her husband, Logie, were contacted by an estate agent who wanted to bring potential buyers to view the house, which was up for sale. The couple allowed the men into their Silverglen home and after discussing matters about the property, the gang allegedly produced knives and stabbed the Pillays. Pillay (63) died in the bathroom while Logie managed to press the panic button, alerting their private security company. The men fled in the couple’s Mercedes Benz. Logie is still in a serious condition in hospital. The accused is believed to be an intern estate agent for Pam Golding Properties. In a message to staff, Andrew Golding, Pam Golding Chief Executive said they were shocked by the news. "Needless to say we are shocked and deeply saddened at this terrible news. Our deepest condolences will be extended to the family, friends and community associated with the victims of this awful event. There will understandably be a lot of media exposure regarding this tragedy, and PGP may regrettably be a focus of attention. In particular, social media is likely to be very active. We are coordinating and dealing with this matter from my office, so please refer all media, or other queries, directly for my attention. Under the circumstances please therefore understand that no one is permitted to make any comment, of any nature, related to this matter in any media channel whatsoever, social or otherwise," he said. Pillay’s death has rocked the Chatsworth community with leaders expressing their shock and sadness and her death. Many, including Haniff Hoosen, Democratic Alliance provincial chairperson and Brandon Pillay, African National Congress councillor, took to social media to lament on the sterling work Pillay had done in the community. Daily News