This was the blistering attack made by ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe when he delivered a lecture on the legacy of former party president OR Tambo in Vosloorus in Ekurhuleni yesterday. Mantashe took a leaf from one of the articles written by political analyst Aubrey Matshiqi, who associated the behaviour of defiant ANC members with Askaris who turned against their own comrades during the fight against apartheid. “This was not coined by me, but I agree with him,” Mantashe said. This remark evoked some passion among the crowd in the Vosloorus Civic Centre, particularly older ANC members who remembered how Askaris “massacred” several young people in that area as well as in Duduza, Nigel and Tembisa on the East Rand. Mantashe made these comments as ANC MP Makhosi Khoza, one of those who wanted Zuma gone, failed to attend the disciplinary hearing against her at the party’s provincial headquarters in KwaZulu-Natal. In an indirect reference to Khoza, Mantashe said: “You do not want to be a darling of everybody. They should have voted with a heavy heart in defence of the ANC. “If the motion had succeeded, the entire cabinet would have been dissolved and Parliament would have been under the Speaker (Baleka Mbete) for a period of 30 days. “During that period, the Speaker would have to preside over the election of a president. If an agreement on the president was not found, Parliament would have been dissolved and new elections held within 90 days,” Mantashe said. According to him, if the outcome of the no-confidence vote had favoured the opposition, it would have placed the upcoming ANC elective conference in disarray. “It’s simple, we would not be having a conference in December, we would be campaigning at our own weakest point,” Mantashe emphasised. Earlier, Mantashe appealed to party members to help get rid of the claim that the “ANC is a party of corrupt people and looters”. “Our choice is to cleanse the ANC,” he said, adding that the duty of ANC members was to fight against state capture. Mantashe conceded that some of the people of South Africa were beginning to have doubts about the party. But he said this could be resolved if ANC members reconnected with voters and gave them confidence and hope. In his view, such confidence and hope could only be regained if the party took a hardline stance against every possible form of corruption and looting. “OR Tambo welcomed constructive criticism. But today, if a comrade disagrees with some in the leadership in the local municipality, he or she is dealt with. It is the same in the provincial government. “Meanwhile, in Parliament, you are just reshuffled and replaced with someone else,” Mantashe said. With tensions simmering over leadership choice and “dirty tricks” being pervasive, Mantashe said the upcoming ANC conference was of huge importance. He described it as a “life or death, prosperity or disaster” matter.