“This time it will be a totally energetic show. It’s not a band show, as this venue usually has. It will be me and my DJ stars, and regardless of the band or DJ, the show will remain the same. It’s the same energy,” said the Girls Dem Sugar hitmaker, who is currently on his Unstoppable tour. Beenie Man, whose real name is Anthony Moses Davis, will be bringing the Jamaican reggae sound back to the country with the King of the Dancehall concert in celebration of his 25 years in the music industry. Sharing the stage with him will be South African reggae legends Jah Seed and Admiral, who are also prepping for their epic showdown at the Red Bull Culture Clash next Saturday. Reggae artist Buffalo Souljah will also shake up the dance floor with his hits. Producer Elcee Gweja and reggae artists Jeremiah Fyah Isis, Celsius, Botanist and Fyah Linx will also be getting bodies sweating with their beats. Beenie Man’s catchy tunes have seen him stand the test of time in reggae circles, as well as in other genres. His blend of Jamaican dancehall and North American hip hop sets his sound apart. He has worked with the likes of Future Fambo, Henricci and Barrington Levy. His 2002 hit song Feel It Boy, featuring Janet Jackson, took his relevancy to new heights, exposing him to a bigger market outside the reggae world. It was one of the many follow-up tracks that continued to solidify him as one of the best reggae artists. The 1996 track Girls Dem Sugar and the 1997 hit Sim Simma still light up dance floors to this day. At the media briefing held at the Newtown Music Factory (former Bassline) on Thursday, Beenie Man said being a musician was about the love. “Music is like your mother. Music is like your girlfriend. It’s the person you love, it’s like the person you give all the passion and attention to. For you to get into music you have to know yourself, who you are and where you are coming from,” he said. He added that artists had to stand firm and true to who they were in the industry. The event takes place at the Newtown Music Factory on Friday. Tickets cost R400 at Computicket and R550 at the gate. @mane_mpi