Gauteng Education MEC Pan-
yaza Lesufi revealed this while answering questions from the DA in the legislature. The questions were to shed light on the appointment of B Makatu, which caused racial tension in the coloured community around Soweto, who, according to media reports, seemed to prefer a coloured candidate to replace the then principal. Seven candidates were shortlisted for the post. The responding document, which was released to the DA last  week, showed that Makatu ranked in third position in the number of points scored. The panel gave her 198 points while R Mabaso led with 211, followed by W Hendricks with 199. The panel included members of the school governing body (SGB), unions and the representative council of learners. Lesufi admitted that certain “discussions” between the SGB and the panel had secured the job for Makatu. “The preferred candidate was not ranked number one in terms of the panel scores. However, the panel had decided prior to the interview that they would use both the candidates’ score and discussions to identify the preferred candidate. This was done in the presence of two observing teacher unions,” said Lesufi. The MEC said the panel gave Makatu a low score because she was an “inexperienced deputy principal” who had only primary school management experience. The top scorer, Mabaso, was deemed to lack leadership curriculum management skills and there was a need to get someone from outside the school to boost its poor performance, which had been occurring for several years. Lesufi further said the panel called a meeting with all SGB members after completing the interviews, where they were taken through the process followed in the shortlisting, interviews and the order of preference for ratification. “There was no objection to the decision of the panel. The signed documents were then forwarded to the department for consideration and the SGB’s recommendation was approved by the head of the department,” said Lesufi. However, Makatu’s appointment was rejected largely by the coloured community who preferred a coloured person to occupy the position as they accused black teachers at the school of mistreating their children. The SGB deputy chairperson had earlier pulled out from the panel purely because his preferred candidate, a coloured male, was not shortlisted. There were also allegations of mismanagement of funds, corruption and racism. The current deputy principal became aggrieved for not being shortlisted or appointed and, together with the deputy chairperson of the SGB and another member, allegedly coerced various community organisations to help overturn the panel’s and SGB’s decision on Makatu, Lesufi said. The unhappiness escalated into violence that resulted in temporary closure of the school, the burning of a bus and closure of roads. It was also reported that 28 other predominantly coloured schools embarked on a go-slow in solidarity with the parents of pupils at Klipspruit-Wes Secondary School. Lesufi then held meetings with all stakeholders, resulting in the dismantling of the SGB and delegating an official from the district office to act as a principal while the matter was being investigated. Gauteng education spokesperson Steven Mabona said the national department was investigating the matter and that Makatu would occupy her position only once a permanent solution had been reached. “The deployed official at the school continues to make sure that  teaching and learning at the school is not hampered, and functionality prevails as an interim measure,” said Mabona. DA education spokesperson Khume Ramulifho said the latest evidence indicated that the process of hiring Makatu was flawed and it needed to be probed. “Based on the information provided on this reply, it shows that the process wasn’t objective as it ignored the best candidate who performed well. “The reasons given also imply that they shortlisted people who don’t meet the requirements; the question is why? The DA has on record indicated that all promotions/appointments must be based on merit. The DA will wait for the investigation to be concluded and will decide the next steps to be taken. However, based on this information, it shows that the process was flawed, it must be redone,” said Ramulifho yesterday. @lindilesifile