American R&B sensation John Legend has announced that he will perform for one more night in Cape Town during his tour of the country in November. The All of Me hitmaker will spend six nights on stage in South Africa, including his additional show in the Western Cape. His highly successful Darkness And Light Tour kicks off in Joburg on November 3 at the Ticketpro Dome in Northgate. He is expected to serenade the crowd again at the same venue the following night. The US musician will then make his way to Durban where he will perform at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on November 7. Capetonians will now have the award-winning artist for three nights in the Grand West Arena from November 9-11. Fans can expect to hear all their favourite hits, with Legend’s band on stage. This includes those from his critically acclaimed fourth studio album Love In The Future, which claimed the number one spot on Billboard’s Hot 100 Singles Chart. His latest album, Darkness and Light, has been a global smash hit with top 10 singles Love Me Now and Penthouse Floor featuring Chance the Rapper. The album debuted on the top 20 of the Billboard 200 and was streamed more than 12 million times in the first week. Tickets for shows in all three cities are available from www.bigconcerts.co.za Fellow US artists Lady Antebellum announced this week that they were cancelling their South African tour, which was to take place next month. This was due to co-lead singer Hillary Scott’s health. “It has been advised that in the best interests of Lady A’s Hillary Scott’s health and that of her twins, that the tour no longer go ahead in South Africa,” they said. The US country-music group, who’ve sold more than 18 million albums worldwide and are seven-time Grammy Award winners, apologised to their fans in the country. Big Concerts wished Scott well during her pregnancy and advised fans who have purchased tickets for the concert to make arrangements to be refunded. Meanwhile, T Musicman announced that Masekela will be unable to perform at this weekend’s Standard Bank Joy of Jazz festival in Sandton. T Musicman chief executive Peter Tladi said the musician would be unable to do any performances, public engagements or travel extensively until the end of October due to health concerns. Following an emergency medical procedure on his left eye, which took place last Friday, doctors have ordered an extended rest period for Masekela and a calm environment for his post-treatment healing. But South Africans can look forward to US rock band 30 Seconds to Mars, Kings of Chaos, The Foo Fighters and James Blunt performing soon.