Police are hunting for five robbers who killed a security guard in the daring heist in Athlone on Saturday. Graphic video footage of the attack doing the rounds on social media shows how armed men shoot and kill the guard and wound another before dragging bags of cash out of the SBV Services SA van. The drama unfolded just before 10am on the corner of Klipfontein and Carnier Roads, known as Rawoot’s Square, in Rylands. The two guards were delivering cash to ATMs when they were ambushed by five armed robbers. The 18-second video clip shows a group of people running away as three suspects rush to the van. The one suspect recklessly shoots into the van, before the suspects drag the guard out and kick him while searching his body. The suspects then remove several cash bags from the van while the guard lies motionless on the ground.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Police say the thieves, dressed in casual clothing with caps on their heads, then jumped into a silver Audi and sped off. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana says one guard died at the scene while the other was rushed to a nearby hospital. She explains: “A cash-in-transit robbery case has been opened for investigation." “According to reports, security personnel were delivering money to various ATMs when about five unidentified suspects approached them." “Two men, both aged 44 years were shot, one was fatally injured and the other injured and transported to hospital for treatment." “The suspects fled the scene in a Silver Audi with an undisclosed amount of money.” Speaking to the Sunday Argus, Mark Barrett, CEO of SBV Services SA , said they were offering a R1m reward for information which could lead to successful arrests and convictions of the robbers. * If you have information about the incident, please contact the SBV Early Warning Robbery Hotline on 083 408 7029. Daily Voice