On Tuesday, the pair took to the streets of the Joburg CBD in an effort to raise awareness around road safety and police enforcement that is expected in the next few days. The two began their walkabout at the Passenger Rail Agency SA offices and walked through the city centre to  the Park Station's bus terminal, where they met commuters. The visit formed part of the Department of Transport’s 2017 Easter Road Safety Campaign and comes ahead of the long Easter weekend - a time of the year when road fatalities often shoot up. The campaign has focused on passengers, specifically with regard to  their role to be on high alert as active participants throughout their journey, keeping on eye on drivers for symptoms of fatigue. Maswanganyi urged motorists to make safety their priority. The minister also said he would be working with the Department of Health as taxi drivers, for instance, with health problems such as diabetes and high blood pressure could go blind while driving - and some drivers were not aware that they have these health problems and were not taking care of themselves. “I am pleading with all taxi owners to not pressure their taxi drivers to make more than three trips in a day when travelling long distances. "This will cause more accidents on the roads, resulting in more deaths on the road,” said Maswanganyi. Some of the commuters used the Wanderers taxi rank which was home to taxis operating across southern Africa. They travelled to countries such as Zambia, Malawi and Lesotho. The rank also housed long-distance domestic operators with destinations such as KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo. Chikunga urged taxi drivers to ensure that passengers have their seat belts fastened or before driving off. “Thirteen people who died in the North West during this past weekend would have been alive if they had their safety seat belts on. "I am getting information everyday stating the numbers of accidents that are happening every day on our roads. Let us be safe during this Easter weekend,” said Chikunga. Special driving permits would be provided for taxi drivers going the long distance this weekend. Dikeledi Madagoe, deputy chairperson of the SA National Taxi Council (Santaco), yesterday expressed her concerns over the special permits that would be provided for the long weekend only. “Something must be done regarding the permits in general. We cannot have our taxis being impounded because of this issue,” said Madagoe. Gauteng MEC for Roads and Transport Ismail Vadi said that taxi drivers must apply all road safety measures, especially as we headed into the Easter weekend. “I am appealing to all taxi drivers and to all the passengers: let's make road safety our overall responsibility (this weekend),” Vadi said.