MEC for Community Safety, Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane says the weekend brings with it high volumes of traffic across various destinations for religious pilgrimages, holidays and even some engaging on business ventures. “This puts an overwhelming strain on traffic congestion and law enforcement agencies who must work around the clock to ensure safety on our roads. “It is worrying to note that it is a period characterised by intolerance to driver behaviour and vehicle fitness manifesting in reckless and negligent driving, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, speeding as well as vehicles that have worn out tyres and faulty brakes,” she said. The report released by the Gauteng Transport Department for the same period last year, as well as the former transport minister, Dipuo Peters showed a 46% decline in the number of people killed on the country’s roads over the Easter period last year. “These figures cannot in any way be celebrated, as one death is one too many. “This invariably requires us to double our efforts and declare a zero tolerance, not only to drivers who will display unbecoming behaviour, but also our own law enforcement agencies soliciting bribes from motorists,” she said. Some of the interventions include: Stop-and-searches for unroadworthy, illegal drugs and weapons. Mounting of speed measuring cameras. Targeting of places of entertainment. Arresting motorists who stop on the highway to carry passengers. Lookout for bakkies ferrying passengers and overloaded. Education and awareness about boarding a legal taxi such as stickers, name and contact details of association and taxi owner. A study by Statistics SA states that the chance of causing an accident doubles after a single drink. It also reveals six out of 10 drivers who die in accidents have dangerously-high alcohol levels in their blood. In an investigation into substance abuse, 50% of truck drivers and 30% of taxi drivers were found to have been drinking. Law-abiding citizens are urged to report incidents to the Road Traffic ManagementCorporation's toll-free number on 0860 400 800. @annacox