The singers will be performing popular covers of songs that people have come to love at the 10-day musical show that starts on Thursday April 13. Cruise, who is now based in New York, will be taking fans back to the days when he was with gospel group We Will Worship, who won a Metro FM award and a Crown Gospel award. “I've just released an album called Barely Breathing, so I'll be doing promotions and joining some great artists on stage for the spectacular,” he said. Cruise has his roots in gospel, but he is in the pop world now. He released his first album with David Gresham Records in 2013 and it was nominated for three SA Music Awards. His move to New York came after he was approached by American producer LA Reid's label Island Records. It was his song Into The Wild that caught their attention after it trended on social media. “It's been a beautiful transition. "It's a completely different world in the US, but I have travelled around the country quite a bit and there is always people from South Africa who bring their flags to the performances.” For the Spectacular taking place at the Joburg Theatre from tomorrow the audience can expect Cruise to sing Malibongwe, a classic We Will Worship rendition, and some songs from his new album for the first time. “I will be singing a duet with Brian Temba and Mahalia Buchanan as well. "There will be a great choir that will be helping us capture that gospel nostalgia after being in church for all these years.” Temba, who is most popularly known for his songs Dominoes and Zanele, as well as his role on Muvhango will be leading Cruise, Mahalia Buchanan of Joyous Celebration and traditional gospel muso Teboho Moloi in song. Fans of the singers can expect a show that includes an ensemble choir and dancers to add to the show. In addition to the musicians singing their own songs they will also be going down gospel memory lane with songs from local and international acts. These include Shackles, O’ Happy Day, You Raise Me Up, Moya Wam and many others. Tickets range from R100 to R250 and can be bought through www.joburgtheatre.com The spectacular runs until Sunday, April 23.