And it's also expected to affect people wanting to join the national march calling 
on President Jacob Zuma to step down. The nationwide bus strike is due to the breakdown in wage negotiations between the South African Road Passenger Bargaining Council, the South African Transport and Allied Workers’ Union (Satawu) and other unions. The employers have been notified and have urged commuters to use alternative public transport. Putco, one of the bus companies affected by the strike, said: “Passengers with printed tickets and tag trip receipts are advised to keep such tickets/receipts until the bus service and ticket sales are resumed. “All passengers who lost trips due to buses not operating during the strike and who keep and submit proof of expired tickets/trips, will receive a pro-rata discount at their next ticket purchase as soon as the strike is called off,” said Putco management yesterday. Satawu spokesperson Zanele Sabela said unions were seeking a 12% across-the-board increase while employers were offering 7.5%. Union workers served their employers a 60-hour notice to go on the nationwide strike. Sabela said the grievances were based on 36 demands 
that have been written in the strike notice. “Employers stubbornly refused to relent to demands that are already stipulated in the Basic Condition of Employment Act,” she said. “Nothing has changed since we notified our employer of the strike on Monday. Therefore the strike is expected to continue.” The following bus companies will be affected: Putco, Mgqibelo, Mayibuye, Buscor and Golden Arrow, Megabus, Mega Express, Bojanala, Gauteng Coaches, Itireleng, Ipelegeng, Atamelang, Autopax, Great North Transport, Rea Vaya, Phola Coaches, PAL Bus and Greyhound. The only bus service that will not be embarking on the strike is Metrobus as it is represented by the South African Local Government Bargaining Council. Today’s strike was expected to not only affect regular commuters but also the scheduled marches that were due to take place in Tshwane and the Western Cape. “I make a clarion call that all parties involved in the negotiations quickly find the deadlock-breaking solution to this impasse,” said Nceba Hinana, the DA Western Cape spokesperson on Transport and Public Works. Hinana made an appeal to the City of Cape Town for the provision of alternative transport for commuters, by engaging with other transport providers such as Metrorail and the South African National Taxi Council. Sizwe Pam-
la, the Cosatu national spokesperson, said the union backed the strike. “We fully support the legitimate and fair demands from the unions and call on the employers to accede to these demands to avert a devastating strike,” said Pamla. “We are calling on the Department of Transport to intervene and work to avert this strike on behalf of thousands of workers and travellers, who will be affected by the strike over the long weekend. “The strike will put a 
strain on the transport system during this busy weekend and if it’s not resolved, we are likely to see an increase in road fatalities.” Rea Vaya commuter and student, Yolanda Ndlovu, said she would be badly affected by the industrial action. “I will have to take a taxi and I usually take a bus. I have classes at 8am and I honestly don’t have cash on me.” It is important to note that people must arrange lifts as the duration of the strike is unknown. @2li2ls