Kgosana died of colon cancer on Wednesday at 5pm at the Akasia Netcare Hospital, in Karen Park, Pretoria, at the age of 80. A PAC delegation led by secretary-general Narius Moloto and secretary for political affairs Jaki Seroke made their way to Kgosana’s home in Karen Park on Thursday afternoon to pay their last respects. Moloto said the party was saddened by Kgosana’s loss but happy with the selfless contribution he had made to the Struggle. He said Kgosana joined the party at a young age and underwent military training in Angola, where he achieved the rank of colonel. “He believed in the development of the country and focused on the development of communities,” he said. Moloto said Kgosana was the brains behind the establishment of a farmers’ association in Winterveld, north of Pretoria. “He wanted communities to be self-sufficient and produce their own food. He was persistent in what he believed in,” he said. Moloto said the party would miss Kgosana’s role in the commemoration of the Langa march and Sharpeville massacre. Kgosana led more than 50000 anti-pass law protesters from Langa in Cape Town, in a march to Parliament on March 30, 1960. He was then the regional secretary of the PAC in the Western Cape. Kgosana’s oldest son, Mohlabani, said: “There is 
more to be pleased about
his life than to be broken by his death.” He said his father had lived his life to the full. “He was a very strong person. He was still making jokes even on a hospital bed. We are pained, but also really grateful,” he said. President Jacob Zuma extended his heartfelt condolences on the sad passing of Kgosana, who was also a former councillor at the City of Tshwane. Zuma said: “We are deeply saddened by the passing of this former freedom fighter who dedicated his life to the liberation of the people of South Africa. We wish to convey our deepest condolences to the Kgosana family and his political home, the Pan Africanist Congress. May his soul rest in peace.” The DA expressed its heartfelt condolences to the family and loved ones of Kgosana. “Ntate Kgosana was a brave and devoted freedom fighter, who dedicated his life to the emancipation of black South Africans,” the party said. It praised Kgosana for his fearless role in the Struggle against apartheid. “He continued to fight for equality and fairness in post-apartheid South Africa.” Kgosana is survived by his wife, Alice, and five children. The Star