Johannesburg – Cosatu has a few hours to make a final decision on whether to allow President Zuma to address the annual May Day rally on Monday. On Thursday, more unions mounted calls to block the president from addressing the Cosatu event in Bloemfontein after a decision by the trade union federation to call for him to step down. The invitation for Zuma to speak at the event highlights the deep divisions in the federation, with two of its biggest affiliates leading the charge to block him from addressing workers. The SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu), SA Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) and National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) joined calls on Thursday to bar Zuma from speaking. Last Friday, the National Health Education & Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) argued in a letter to Cosatu that allowing Zuma to speak would cause conflict in the federation and requested, instead, to be addressed by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. The skirmishes over Zuma’s invitation to the May Day rally have widened the cracks in Cosatu in the wake of its call for Zuma to leave office and the endorsement of Ramaphosa to take over. The pro-Zuma unions lashed out at those calling for Zuma not to address the rally, accusing them of factionalism. National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) general secretary David Sipunzi said Nehawu and the CWU should have called for a special central executive committee (CEC) of the federation if they wanted someone other than Zuma to address the rally. “We decided in a CEC that he can come as the alliance partner president and not as the president of the country. Him coming to the rallies will not confuse people, as long as we have highlighted in what capacity he is attending the rallies." "Cosatu leadership does not have the power to change decisions that were agreed upon in the CEC.” Transport union Satawu general secretary Zenzo Mahlangu said Zuma has to speak. “Our view is very simple and straightforward. We don't dictate to the ANC who it should send to the rally. We requested a deployee, the ANC deployed, so JZ has to address.” Liberated Metalworkers Union of SA (Limusa) president Cedric Gina echoed Mahlangu’s sentiments. “Limusa doesn't have a problem with Zuma addressing workers. It's the CEC’s decision. If Nehawu and CWU have a problem with that they can call a special CEC and try to reverse that decision, and I wish them good luck because May Day is on Monday.” On Monday, Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali wrote to all affiliates saying a CEC meeting had agreed that Zuma, Cosatu leader Sdumo Dlamini, his SACP counterpart Blade Nzimande and Sanco president Richard Mdakane should all address the rally. Ntshalintshali said while they wanted Zuma to step down, “we do not have an understanding that as ANC president he is no more allowed to attend Cosatu activities”. Zuma spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga said he did not know where Zuma would be on Monday. Secretary-general Gwede Mantashe would not be drawn on the matter. Political Bureau