This came out on Thursday during the 43-year-old’s bail hearing application in the Kempton Park Magistrate’s Court. He and seven others are facing charges of robbery with aggravated circumstances following a brazen heist in which the group allegedly made off with R20.7million. During the court proceedings, prosecutor Jacob Serepo read Hawks investigating officer Colonel Samuel Mahlangu’s supplementary affidavit, which claimed that Dube had numerous identities. “We have found records of 14 different names, five surnames, six different dates, four convictions, two fines, and nine different addresses as per our reports from the local criminal record,” Mahlangu’s affidavit read. Dube previously submitted an affidavit in which he claimed to earn R400 000 a month while possessing movable property worth only R100 000. However, his legal counsel, advocate Oscar Machevele, told the court his client had made a mistake because he was confused as a result of an assault by the arresting officers. “Your worship, the applicant actually earns R400 000 per annum and not per month,” Machevele said. “My client was still confused as he had been grievously assaulted by the arresting officers.” The apparent confusion was attributed to the fact that Dube owns one company while being incorporated into three other companies. This, Machevele told the court, was where Dube earned his money. However, it was revealed that not all the companies were registered for value added tax, nor were there tax returns for them from 2010 to last year. Machevele complained about the fact that two of the eight men arrested were out on bail while one of them was released on a warning, despite facing the same charges. “These are the same facts but they’re out on bail. There is nothing linking my client to the robbery,” he said. “The basis of a crime with aggravated circumstances entails a firearm would need to be used, but no firearm or ammunition was found in the possession of the applicant during his arrest,” Machevele added. He accused the State of using an umbrella allegation against his client. With regard to the multiple identities, he said the prosecution was merely alleging the illegality of his client’s nationality. “The State is claiming my client has 14 names but they don’t have any proof of this. The applicant submitted a certified copy of his ID, driving licence, and a copy of his company’s registration document – all of which have the same ID number on them,” Machevele said. He added the State’s attempt to keep his client imprisoned was built on a fishing expedition. The matter was adjourned until Friday, when a ruling on the bail application was expected. The Star