Wisani, 32, was convicted in November last year of beating to death his girlfriend Nosipho Mandleleni, 24. The case has been delayed on several occasions, one of which saw Wisani assault two witnesses: Siphokazi Mandleleni, Nosipho’s sister, and her friend. Bail was subsequently revoked. The former ANC Youth League leader appeared at the high court in Joburg on Monday, where he has been convicted of murder and assault. The court gallery was packed with members of the Yeoville-Bellevue No Gender Based Violence Coalition, who have been  following the case since it got under way. The court heard testimony from Nosipho’s mother Noxolo, who stated she would like to forgive Wisani but he had not admitted to committing the crime. “This thing has hurt me deeply... The wound in my heart will never heal,” Noxolo said. She asked that the court hand down a sentence of life imprisonment to Wisani. “What I am interested in is him being jailed so that he can learn his lesson. “That way, we will be certain that he will never do such a thing to someone else’s child,” she said. She described Nosipho as a loving, respectful and hard-working young woman. The family relied on Nosipho’s salary to make ends meet. Since her death, things had been very difficult. Other family members also expressed the view that because Wisani had money and influence in their community, he believed he could do whatever he liked. Sonke Gender Justice’s Nonhlanhla Skosana said she hoped the judge would hand down a maximum sentence but also that the time had come for the Ministry of Women to be bolder in the fight against gender-based violence. “Every six hours in South Africa a woman is killed by an intimate partner. “We are saying to Minister (Susan) Shabangu that we need to have a national strategic plan on gender-based violence prevention. It is costing this country billions of rand to deal with such cases. Violent cases... “We acknowledge that there are programmes for women, but how will they enjoy them if they die like Nosipho?” Wisani’s attorney, Cronje Kriel, told the court that his client should not get life imprisonment because he was a first-time offender, had contributed positively to his community and his family - parents, daughters and siblings - relied on him financially. The state prosecutor, Faghre Mohamed, however, pointed to the brutal manner in which Nosipho died as the reason why the court should impose a harsher sentence. On the stand, Wisani revealed that after he was convicted of murder, he decided to continue with his studies. He is enrolled in a BCom financial accounting degree. When asked about whether he felt remorse over murdering Nosipho, Wisani said: “What has happened has really affected me. Not a day goes by where I don’t think about this. Or her. But I can’t  talk about remorse,” he said. He still maintains that he did not murder Nosipho. The sentencing is set to conclude on May 11, when the judge will hand down his ruling.