The event, which will be held for three nights in Joburg, will feature Joey Rasdien, Barry Hilton, Kagiso Lediga, Stuart Taylor and Jason Goliath. The acclaimed comics will be joined by legendary hip hop DJ Ready D, who is expected to set the decks alight at The Teatro in Montecasino. “Easter has never seen funnier nights,” the show’s organisers said. The Big 5 Comedy Show was recently held in Cape Town and this leg received rave reviews with all seats  sold out. A similar turnout as well as the highest calibre of comedy is also anticipated in Joburg. The group are no strangers to the comedy scene. Rasdien has graced local TV screens with appearances on SABC’s sketch comedy series, The Pure Monate Show, and was chosen to be one of the presenters of the M-Net comedy series, Laugh Out Loud. Hilton is also a veteran comedian who has hosted several TV talk shows, such as Catch a wake-up and Funny You Should Say That. The award-winning Lediga has been a regular on the comedy stage and has performed at some of the most prestigious events, including the Cape Town International Comedy Festival, where he won the People’s Choice Award. He has written and directed TV comedy shows such as the Pure Monate Show, Late Nite News with Loyiso Gola, and the Bantu Hour. Taylor might be best known as the presenter of SABC3’s hit travel show, Going Nowhere Slowly, but he has managed to cement himself in the comedy world. He has learnt how to fuse comedy with magic to deliver a unique performance. Taylor has also toured the country with two of his own shows: Money’s Too Tight To Mention as well as Learner Husband. Jason is one third of the Goliath trio as his relatives Donovan and Nicholas are also regulars on the comedy scene. He has been nominated as the Best Newcomer in the 2012 SA Comic Choice Awards - and with his big personality and presence, Goliath is also an actor and MC. Performances take place from Friday to Sunday. Tickets for the show are available via Computicket for R150 to R300. @Karishma_Dipa