Johannesburg - Thousands of people took to the Joburg CBD streets today calling for President Jacob Zuma to step down. At least 10 000 people gathered for the DA March for Change at the Westgate Transport Hub and made their way to Mary Fitzgerald Square singing, dancing and holding placards. In a peaceful march, many of those attending said that "enough was enough" and that it was time "bring an end to Zuma's rule in country". "We want change, this is not what our forefathers fought for – this is not freedom when someone is bankrupting our democracy and his party is protecting him," said one marcher Thembi.    Another marcher, Mark, said he believed the President has no care for the well-being of South Africa. "All he wants is to line his pockets and allow the rest of us to suffer. We have to unite and we have to get Zuma out, we can't carry on like this. "He is not a president and he's surely not my president. He needs to do the right thing and go," he said. "I'm angry, this is not the country we fought for, down with Zuma, down!" said one woman clad in blue.    Under the highway bridge the sound of thousands of people echoed on Henry Nxumalo Street as the massive group sang and danced down the road. Some held signs reading that "Enough is enough! Fire Zuma", "Zuptas Go Home," and "#Change19" while blowing vuvuzelas and whistles. People of all faiths and backgrounds joined the march with Hindu, Muslim, Christian and Jewish leaders taking part and walking arm at the front. Addressing the massive crowd at Mary Fitzgerald Square, DA Leader Mmusi Maimane said that South Africa is in crisis, and many feel a deep sense of despair, "but today, looking out at all of you I am filled with hope".    "Today is a defining moment in the history of our country. The moment when South Africans stood together against a corrupt President and his government. "All around the country hundreds of thousands of people are gathering to make their voice heard," he said. Thousands of businesses are showing their support by shutting their doors for the day. "Workers and employers joining hands, political opponents united in a common goal, religious leaders from across the spectrum, rich, poor, black and white – we have all had enough of Jacob Zuma and the corrupt ANC government he leads," Maimane said.    "We have had enough of the Guptas and their stranglehold on our country and our economy, we have had enough of our currency being manipulated and we have had enough of job losses and deepening poverty. We are not a “junk” country. Jacob Zuma may have led us to this point, but we are embarking on a movement for change which seeks to create opportunities for all and build a prosperous, diverse nation," Maimane said as the crowd cheered loudly. He said this was a new struggle, a moment we can charter a better tomorrow. "Fellow South Africans, just when Jacob Zuma wants us divided, we are united. The people of South Africa will never accept the destruction of our country. We will stand up and stop it, together," he reiterated, as the marchers clapped and blew their whistles.    As The Star walked back and across Ntemi Piliso Street, the sound of rubber bullets filled the air as MK Veterans and ANC supporters attempted to cross the street and charge towards Mary Fitzgerald Square. Three Star journalists were then accosted by the ANC supporters who insisted that the media act as their "human shield" to stop police shooting rubber bullets at them. One journalist was physically picked up, while two others were pushed and shoved in front the crowd towards the officers clad in riot gear. However as the police forward, the journalists were able to get away from the volatile crowd. @Lanc_02  ilanit.chernick@inl.co.za  The Star