The Mercury was inundated with reports on social media and telephone calls about the tremors that had buildings swaying. North Beach residents said they it was a scary experience when buildings started to move, with some people hysterically running out of their buildings. A man who lived on the 13th floor of a block of flats said it was a terrifying experience. "It felt like the whole building was swaying." Another resident, Mike Bloxham, said he had been at his desk writing a report when he felt the tremor. He said, “The report now has lots of squiggles.” According to Bloxham, many people had left their flats in Dr Pixley KaSeme Street ( West Street) and gathered on the streets below. Metro police were in attendance.  #DurbanTremor we felt it in south beach (shopping center)people are outside up now. pic.twitter.com/FBnrzi6ipP   — priscilla mwamba (@mpmwamba2014) April 3, 2017  “We are in a 15 storey building, with four flats per floor. Everyone came rushing out in a panic. "After the tremor my wife called her sister in Pretoria, who told her that she woke up when she felt her bed moving," said Bloxham. ER 24 spokesperson, Annine Dormehl said they received reports of a tremor, adding that it was believed that it originated from Botswana. She said it was felt as far afield as Johannesburg, Pretoria and Rustenburg. "At approximately 19:35 this evening, several people took to social media and reported that they have felt severe earth tremors across Johannesburg, Pretoria and some even report as far as Botswana," she said. Dormehl said they had not received any reports of injuries or fatalities from the tremor. The website BDO News confirmed this: It said a strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 6.5 had struck Botswana, with shaking felt across southern Africa. Andrè Engelbrecht said on Facebook, “Was shaking here in Johannesburg. Everything was rattling for quite some time.” Maryann Francis said: “Yes same felt in South Beach. Buildings were swaying for at least 20 seconds. Residents still on the road.” Jeeten Singh commented: The End is here....for Zuma. He can test his bunk house now…” Margaret Louise Janssen said: “Apparently. Big one in Botswana..6.5 on the Richter scale.” The Mercury