Now, five years on, the focus is on making residents go green. “I’m born and raised here, and it’s important to show people what alternative energy can do. If we invest in solar energy we can reduce monthly bills and spend the extra money on other important things,” said organiser Thato Mothopeng of Ghetto Mentality Entertainment. Mothopeng said that if people were more educated on the benefits of going green, they would better understand climate change and how it affected them directly. “It’s not just about saving on electricity bills, but also about getting people to start planting vegetables, making food gardens and water conservation. Especially since we are coming out of a water shortage situation.” The festival, taking place this weekend at Mofolo Park, is a three-day camping and music affair. The official hashtag for the event is #SowetoGoesGreen. “This is the platform to launch our school initiative of educating and showcasing what green solutions can do. Our goal is to plant 1000 trees around Soweto, and the first tree will be planted during the festival,” said Mothopeng. They will also be identifying different schools and NGOs that want to plant trees in their yards as part of the initiative. The festival will have music and outdoor lovers living together in the same space, enjoying the night skies. Several artists will be performing in the same area as the camp site, making it an interactive experience. Activities include quad biking, bungee jumping, arcade games, a beer garden, indigenous games, a bicycle tour, a horse and carriage tour, stalls and a market area, a fashion show, movie screenings and a comedy show. “We will have live bands as well, but this year we are focused on getting new, fresh sounds. "There will be two dance floors and four stages. It’s going to be a jam-packed weekend,” said Mothopeng. The line-up ranges from Pro Kid and Urban Village to Kgomotso SongBird and Music Flair. For the #SowetoGoesGreen initiative, festival organisers plan to ask Soweto residents to switch off their electricity or non-essentials between 6pm and 7pm on Friday to spread awareness about electricity consumption. Visit www.sowetocampfestival.co.za to find out more.