 London - A wife found out her husband was cheating on her after he was killed in a 160km/p drink-drive smash while taking his mistress home from a date. Kadeel Newby, 23, had taken his lover, Natasha Gregson, 21, for a night out in Manchester when he lost control of his Toyota Yaris at 2am. But his wife Korette, 26, with whom he had two young children, had no idea her husband of five years had been having an affair until police broke the news after his death. Mr Newby, who was not wearing a seatbelt, and Miss Gregson were catapulted out of the car’s rear window after it flew over a bridge at more than three times the speed limit and smashed into railings in Horwich, Greater Manchester, on October 12 last year. Miss Gregson later told officers that her lover had been driving like "The Stig" – the racing driver from the BBC’s Top Gear. She survived with a fractured skull and a laceration to her liver but Mr Newby, a car mechanic, died later in hospital from multiple injuries. This week Mrs Newby listened as details of her husband’s six-day fling with Miss Gregson were revealed at an inquest into his death. The hearing, in Bolton, was told that Mr and Mrs Newby, of Mossley, Greater Manchester, had started dating as teenagers and married in 2011. They had two sons Kashai, six, and Lauriyon, three. But last year cracks began to emerge in their marriage and in October Mr Newby started seeing Miss Gregson, from Bolton. In a statement Miss Gregson, who was not at the hearing at the request of Mrs Newby, said: "Kadeel told me he was separated from his ex and had been for about five months.’ She added: ‘He always picked me up in his Toyota Yaris but never wore his seatbelt, it was plugged in and he sat on it. His driving was erratic. He drove like The Stig, at some points I wanted to tell him to stop. It was like the world was going to stop and he wanted to get there quick." Mrs Newby, a pharmacist, admitted the couple had been bickering before her husband’s death. She claimed Miss Gregson had met her husband just six days before the accident and was "obsessed" with him. She added: "I still can’t believe he’s gone and don’t know how I will ever get over this. We were each other’s world." Police Constable David Poole, of Greater Manchester Police, told the court that Mr Newby had been driving at about 101mph on a 30mph road before the crash. He added: "I believe the passenger was wearing a seatbelt but I believe the driver was not. Sometimes even wearing a seatbelt is not sufficient enough." Tests also showed Mr Newby had 113mg of alcohol in 100ml of blood. The legal limit is 80mg. Recording a conclusion of death by road traffic collision, Coroner Alan Walsh said: "Kadeel was 23 years of age, he was a young man with a devoted wife and two young children. My greatest thoughts are to Kadeel’s children. Two boys who adored their father... that’s the greatest cost." Daily Mail