The body of Abenise Bowes was found face down in the hole at about 4pm on Sunday in Olympic Avenue in Lotus River, just behind Plantation Road Primary School. The mother of two, believed to be 29 or 30, was reported as missing last Thursday and the body was discovered by neighbourhood watch members. Shocked residents gathered at the scene as police dug the body out of the hole on Sunday. Part of the soccer field was cordoned off to allow police and forensics officers to do their work. Abenise is survived by her young son and daughter she had with husband, Dwight Bowes. It is believed the couple separated at the end of last year. Tributes for the mother poured in on social media and many were left shocked by her grisly death. Wilhelmina Johnson wrote on Facebook: “Abenise Bowes.May your soul R I.P. Lord Jesus strengthen us as family. Our Hearts are Broken. Pls keep us Lord, Abi’s husband, her children, her Sisters and brothers, in Jesus Name.” The Daily Voice contacted the family on Tuesday, but they were not ready to speak at the time. “We as the family of Abenise are not willing to speak to the media at the moment. We are going through a really difficult time and we will decide when and if we as the family will speak,” a female family member said. The Daily Voice spoke to a neighbour of Abenise’s, in Farms Crescent, who said they were shocked to hear about her death. “She was a very nice and friendly person. She worked a lot and one did not see her much,” the woman said on condition of anonymity. “She was someone who always greeted; she was married and had two children; a girl and a boy. It is very sad what has happened to her,” the neighbour said. The neighbour says the killing has sent shock waves through the community. “We are all so shocked by what has happened. The area we live in is so peaceful and quiet and for something like this to happen here is terrible. “Nobody can believe it,” she said. Police spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel Andrè Traut, says no arrests have been made yet. “On Sunday at 3.45pm, the body of an unknown female was discovered in a shallow grave in Olympic Avenue, Grassy Park,” Traut said. “The circumstances surrounding the matter are currently under investigation and no one has been arrested as yet.” Daily Voice