A security guard was killed and another wounded in the heist in Athlone two weeks ago. Mark Barrett, the CEO of SBV Services SA , offered the big reward for information which could lead to successful arrests and convictions of the suspects, who got away with an undisclosed amount of money. The dramatic shooting on  April 1 was caught on security cameras on the corner of Klipfontein and Carnie roads, aka Rawoot’s Square, in Rylands. Two guards were filling up ATM machines when they were ambushed by five armed robbers. An 18-second video clip shows a group of people fleeing as three suspects pounce on the money truck.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  One suspect is seen shooting recklessly into the van, killing the guard, 44. Another security guard, also aged 44, was wounded and rushed to hospital. The suspects are seen kicking the dead security guard before grabbing money bags. The robbers fled in a silver Audi. On Wednesday, police a confirmed the hefty reward paid off when they arrested a 32-year-old suspect at his home in Malmesbury, following a tip-off. Cops also revealed the suspect is employed by the Western Cape Emergency Medical Services. Mitchells Plain Cluster Commander Major General Gregory Goss confirmed the arrest: “The suspect is believed to have been involved in the cash in transit heist in Athlone and the suspect is working for EMS Malmesbury ambulance services." “We received information and he was arrested after a high reward was given by the company.” Police sources reveal members of the tactical response unit carried out the arrest. The suspect is expected to appear in the Athlone Magistrates’ Court on 18 April. A year ago, paramedic Patrick Kondlo, who also worked for EMS and was stationed at Mitchells Plain, handed himself over to cops. Kondlo and another suspect allegedly attacked and hijacked their own colleagues at knifepoint in Khayelitsha. EMS spokesperson Robert Daniels has confirmed the suspect was employed by EMS as a Basic Ambulance Assistant at the Malmesbury Station. “We have however not been informed of the allegations or his arrest until now,” Daniels said on Wednesday. Daily Voice