Born in Soshanguve, about 25km from Pretoria, and raised in Bushbuckridge, Mpumalanga, Mkhondo received a degree in actuarial science and financial mathematics. He completed his studies in December aged 19, making him the youngest graduate in his class. “This is the proudest moment of my life and I’m enjoying every moment,” said Mkhondo, now 20, and the first of his family to receive a university degree. He enrolled at Tuks as a 15-year-old after teachers encouraged him to skip two grades when they realised he was excelling. Mkhondo hopes his achievements will inspire others to realise they can “make it through education”, instead of crime. Growing up in Bushbuckridge, he said his goal to study actuarial science required him to dream big and not let his environment limit him. “We are a product of our environment. We dream what we see,” he said. “I saw there was a much bigger life in terms of my dreaming.” Even when things got tough, it was important for him to not view himself as a victim. For example, his matric result in mathematics was 2% shy of the requirement to study actuarial science. Instead of giving up, he enrolled in an extended programme with more relaxed prerequisites and an extra year of study. Christine Kraamwinkel, who lectures first-year students in the programme, said Mkhondo has matured significantly since she taught him in 2013, her first year as a lecturer. “He trusts his own voice more than he used to,” she said. “He has more confidence in his abilities, because he’s done what he’s done. He’s realised he’s capable of a lot.” She took him on as a teacher earlier this year, because she thought his story would inspire new students. For Mkhondo, Friday’s ceremony had an added significance: It was the first time his family was together after his parents had separated. He told The Star on the morning of his graduation: “I’m looking forward to taking that picture. My mom, my dad, my little brother and I are going to be in the same picture. I didn’t think there was going to be a situation where they come together again.” Mkhondo is now working toward an honours degree in mathematical statistics and hopes to further pursue a Master’s degree. Sollie Millard, a senior statistics lecturer who is supervising Mkhondo’s honours research project, said Mkhondo fulfils the two criteria he looks for in a student: intellectual capacity and an attitude toward making a difference. “I’ve seen a couple of young students, but definitely not as young as he is, not as intellectually developed as he is, and also in terms of his emotional intelligence,” said Millard, who has taught for 27 years. Reflecting on his journey, Mkhondo said he is glad for his experiences and now strives to put himself in uncomfortable situations to help him grow. “In life, everyone is a part of their own movie. I’m allowing myself to be the main character in my movie in which I manage to pick myself up each time when I fall. I am #QuintineMkhondo.”