Hundreds of people queued in Chrysler Street in Beacon Valley on Wednesday at 5pm when alleged 28s leader Ralph Stanfield made Easter a bit sweeter for poor residents. Young, old and people in wheelchairs could be seen patiently waiting their turn to receive their donation, which the community says is an annual goodwill gesture from Stanfield. Stanfield, who owns a petrol station in Bishop Lavis, stood at the start of the line, handing out tens and hundreds of rands. Witnesses say pensioners and wheelchair-bound residents were ushered to the front of the line. One by one, Stanfield spoke to residents and asked them about their circumstances at home – the nature of the responses determined how much each would receive. It is not clear how much money in total was handed out on the day. Stanfield told the Daily Voice: “Part of being a businessman is giving back to the community where you came from. No matter what people’s opinion is about you, you must always try to rise above their thoughts and critical outlook and do good." He says the reason he gives monies to residents this time of the year is because everybody deserves a blessed Easter. “I give money to people so that people can prepare something for Easter, so they can at least put a fish on the table for the religious ritual of Easter and they can celebrate,” Stanfield says. Stanfield is the nephew of Colin Stanfield, who died of cancer in 2004, and is the cousin of convicted 28s boss in Valhalla Park, Saliem John. Last October, Stanfield, his wife Nicole, his sister Francesca, and three cops – Lieutenant Billy April and police clerks Priscilla Mangayne and Mary-Gail Cartwright – were acquitted on a string of charges relating to fraud, corruption, possession of unlicensed firearms and contravention of the Firearms Act. And in November, his lawyer Noorudien Hassan was gunned down in a suspected hit outside his Lansdowne home. This is not the first time Stanfield has dug deep for communities in need. Last September, he covered the costs for the funeral of Lekita Moore, 18, who was murdered on a field in Valhalla Park. He provided food and drinks for the funeral and hired out the hall for hundreds of mourners. Daily Voice