In the past few weeks, the country has seen three cash-in-transit heists occurring on consecutive days. A few weeks ago, a group of robbers conducted another daring heist at OR Tambo International Airport, making away with R200 million. For those looking for a respite from the crime, it's only going to get worse during the rest of the month, as consumer spending rises during the holiday and the amount of cash in circulation increases, said Richard Phillips, joint chief executive of Cash Connect Management Solutions, a cash management and payment solutions firm. While cash-in-transit robberies have been on the decline in the past decade, last year saw a rise in these incidents, which Phillips said could translate to another increase in 2017. Cash crimes - which include armed robberies and business burglaries -  are generally conducted by crime syndicates who work in armed groups of six to 12 people and operate as a well-oiled machine, Phillips said. It's widely believed in the security industry that 90% of these crimes occur with help - voluntarily or involuntarily - from someone on the inside. Security footage from recent attacks shows that criminals are often able to disable the alarm system and head directly to where the cash is held, suggesting prior knowledge of the target. “These guys are organised criminals,” he said. “They're not drive-by-night guys, ad hoc break-and-entry type of criminals.” Despite the brazenness of the recent heists - one of which involved a shootout in the Joburg CBD - the drop in cash-in-transit robberies is quite significant over the past decade, according to data supplied by the SAPS. A total of 137 cash-in-transit robberies occurred during the period April 2015 to March 2016. Although a 15.1% increase from the prior year, the 2006/07 figure was a staggering 467 incidents. The current trend indicates an ongoing jump in these robberies for this year, Phillips said. Cash-in-transit heists are particularly hard to police because they're meticulously planned out, and groups don't conduct them on a frequent basis, said Gareth Newham, the head of the governance, crime and justice division at the Institute for Security Studies. After a heist is committed, groups split up and are able to evade capture. Given that the number of people who can successfully pull off these heists is relatively small, once police do apprehend criminals they can put a significant dent in the number of crimes committed. “When you're able to identify a group who are involved in cash-in-transit heists and you manage to arrest them, prosecute them or keep them in prison or keep your eye on them, it does have an impact on reducing the overall number per year,” he said. Although heists can have greater pay-offs than cash crimes in the retail sector, it's often easier to target businesses, Phillips said. In the coming weeks, the retail space can expect to see a spike in cash robberies and burglaries at physical locations, with criminals using more brazen tactics to break into money caches. “There's a certain degree of vulnerability within retail,” he said. “They're not security people. They're retailers, and there is an accumulation of money in the stores which can be attractive.” Businesses can take steps to ensure that they're well protected from cash crimes by making sure cash is moved outside of business hours. In 2016, the use of plastic explosives increased by more than 400%, suggesting what Phillips called a “professionalisation in the criminal world when it comes to the usage of explosives.” Because of that, it is also key to have a “hardened and robust” device to store money in, he said. Even the mere knowledge of a business having a sturdy cash vault that is difficult to break into can be a deterrent to criminals, he added. “When a bandit finally works out the amount of effort to get his hands on the cash is just a bridge too far, they will simply go down to an easier, softer target where they can get away with it without much resistance,” Phillips said. The use of specialised police task teams - units of experienced detectives and people from intelligence who focus on addressing a particular type of crime - has been particularly effective in combating cash crimes. However, these specialised teams are not necessarily permanent, Newham said. It's not uncommon for resources to be allocated towards other crimes after the frequency of a particular crime is brought down, which could explain the recent spike in crimes. Ultimately, Phillips said he believes the most effective way to combat cash crime is through a co-ordinated effort between the police and cash industry. He said the police minister's recent commitment to a specialised team for cash crime is an encouraging sign. “It has to be a police-driven initiative,” he said. “Fighting crime is their specialty.” @benjamindin