And while the accusations have thus far remained verbal in Joburg and Tshwane, the Mogale City Metro will be turning to the courts to address the problem - with a political stand-off set between DA mayor Michael Holenstein and ANC Speaker Patrick Lipudi. The two have tussled regularly since the inception of the multiparty government established after the local government elections, with council meetings being disrupted and cancelled regularly. Holenstein last week, in a high court application, accused Lipudi and the ANC of sabotaging service delivery. The urgent interdict application was struck off the roll on the basis that it was not urgent. “They have been driving an anti-democratic and obstructive campaign,” he said.  “The objectives of this campaign are to hinder service delivery and to prevent the council from meeting certain legislated deadlines, for example, the tabling of the budget. “Failure to meet these deadlines could result in the municipality being put under administration by the province, and that ultimately is the objective of the ANC,” said Holenstein. In return, Lipudi accused his adversary of being “illiterate of council processes” and “incompetent”. Both men said that the stand-off had seen the municipality’s 2017/18 budget not being approved in a March 29 council meeting that was disrupted by unruly councillors. “One of the tactics applied by the Speaker is the adjournment of council meetings for extremely flimsy and spurious reasons. This prevents the council from approving the allocation of resources for service delivery, and also puts legislated deadlines under pressure,” said Holenstein. He added that he had approached the courts to resolve the impasse. The urgent application was to force the Speaker to convene a meeting to debate a motion of no confidence in himself and to apply a set of council rules that were legal. The costs of the court action were borne by the DA and Mogale City ratepayers. In February, motions of no confidence were passed against Lipudi and ANC chief whip Sipho Dube. The motions were later overturned by Gauteng local government MEC Paul Mashatile on the grounds that they were not consistent with council rules as adopted by the same council and relevant municipal legislation. “Any attempts by the ANC to suggest that the council should be put under administration should be seen for the propaganda that they are, because they are the very party attempting to destabilise the council. The fact that they are harming the very residents that they claim to care about and represent, is a sign of their desperation to regain control of the municipality,” said Holenstein. Lipudi said the council was in tatters because the DA did not want to comply with council resolutions passed last year before the local government elections. “There are many issues that we are failing to comply with,” he said. “Just an example, on the meeting of the 29th we could not approve the IDP, the draft budget. “What is surprising is that the mayor says the budget was tabled in council he thinks because it was merely an item in the agenda, it means it has been approved, which is not the case. “An item must be tabled and approved in council. The problem is we are dealing with a mayor who is very incompetent and illiterate when it comes to council and government processes,” said Lipudi. He said the DA wanted to remove him “because they have discovered that I know how government is run and how laws should be applied”.