The popular sportscaster managed to make a name for herself in the male-dominated field from pure passion. “I didn’t really decide, I think sport chose me. I didn’t really choose this career path. When I was still in high school and deciding what route I was going to take, not many prominent female sportscasters existed that I could look up to,” she says. “I’ve been in this industry for 16 years and there are still a handful of us, so you can imagine back  when I started there was literally no one,” she said. Towards the end of her matric year, Tshabalala entered a beauty pageant and met former SABC1 continuity presenter Graeme Richards and told him about her love for the industry. “He invited me to the studio he was also doing voice overs for a junior sports show Sports Buzz. I met the producer, Melinda Lombard, and she gave me a script and asked if I wanted to give it a try.” For Tshabalala the opportunity was one not to be missed. “I come from a family of diehard sports fanatics, particularly football. Growing up in Soweto we’d watch live football games. It was always a way of life for me,” she says. Lombard loved her voice so much that she asked her to return the next week.  Apprenticeship  “The rest is history. I was just so lucky,” Tshabalala adds. She recalls her time on the show an apprenticeship. She started from the grassroots of working in development sports and learnt about the different sporting codes. “I started doing voice overs for Sports Buzz and writing my own scripts, and then doing pitch-side reporting. That’s why I always say sport found me, I was meant to do this.” For this interview, Tshabalala welcomed us to her work space at SuperSport in Randburg. She had just come from a morning segment for her monthly Absa broadcast. “I’m up at 5am on most days preparing lunches for my boys and getting them ready for school. Then I go to boxing “(It allows me) to be fit and keep my womanly shape.” She’s been boxing at the Hot Box Gym for eight years. The gym trains professional boxers and Tshabalala works out with celebrated trainer Vusi Mtolo. “After boxing I relax at home a little and on some days do voice overs or corporate gigs. At other times I am emceeing  at launches, or in meetings and planning future events or just catching up with the business of the day. “When I’m not at work I love watching movies and music. “If I’m not watching sport with my kids - it really is all about them - I try and maximise the time I have with them.” Tshabalala is crazy about travelling and whenever she has some time off she makes sure she finds a destination to travel to. Tshabalala often brings her sons, Joel, Mpho and Solomon (aged between 14 and 9), to work where they revel in the studio and at pitch-side. As Tshabalala travels a lot, she often skypes the boys and they get to watch her on screen regularly. “They were born into this life so for them it’s nothing foreign. I just think it’s a blessing that I have boys that are into what I do. It fits in with my life.” Before joining SuperSport, Tshabalala was with SABC Sport for 10 years. There she made a name for herself and exposed herself to diehard fans who grew to love her. Tshabalala moved to the pay channel because she felt she wasn’t realising her full potential at SABC. She would often be sidelined for male counterparts. She was snubbed during the 2010 World Cup and again when she was offered a slot to co-host a magazine show instead of a more prominent role during the games. “My aim has always been to conquer. I’ve conquered through SuperSport and I have been able to capture the African market. “I’m a global figure through the work I do with Fifa. I’m an NBA ambassador, I love my boxing and I’m always going to these international sporting events.” Last year, Tshabalala joined the international Premier League Productions, the first anchor outside of the UK to do so. “That was huge. The English Premiership is the most competitive in the whole world; it’s watched all over the globe. Every month that I go there and I do my shows from studio I have a global audience. “There are millions of people that watch from all over the world they broadcast to over 220 countries.” Growing up and not having an iconic figure to aspire to was what drove her. “In terms of my craft as a journalist and an anchor, the English Premiership work is going to make me more global. My role there is going to grow this year.” Tshabalala said she felt a lot of pressure going into something so big. “To be selected you have to be the best of the best and for them to say ‘We want Carol from South Africa, she is an expert in the game in the UK’ that was huge.” She said her reputation had a lot to do with it. “I am top of the game, 16 years in the industry and they decide that I’m one of the best in the world. It was quite an honour.” Tshabalala’s South African audience continues to love her and all she represents. She says this makes it that much easier for her to stand out. “There is just a handful of us women in sports so already when I started out I made waves because it was something different, something that a lot of women don’t pursue. So it’s important to always keep it fresh. And I’m already so different from my male colleagues.” The 34-year-old has been in the sports field since she was 18. She credits her staying power to the fact that she always makes sure her knowledge is on point and never gets too comfortable. “I know my craft and I’m always refining it as well. I always make sure I find new avenues, new challenges and new ways of presenting myself to the world.” One day the “First Lady of Sport”, as she is known, will branch out into other avenues - all within the parameters of sport. “I would like to start writing biographies at a later stage of sporting legends. My autobiography is still being written. There are just so many chapters. I have a production company so I’ll be producing my own shows as well but all within sport.”  Inspiration  Many young women and men look up to Tshabalala often reaching out to her on social media platforms to compliment her work. “This is what I always tell youngsters that approach me and say they want to do what I do. I offer to invite them to studio so they can see what goes into it. For them it looks glamorous getting to have sports icons as your best friends and talking to them all the time.” Tshabalala always asks them to explain their motivation and whether they are genuinely passionate about 
the craft. “Are they truly passionate, are they knowledgeable about the game because this is one of the hardest jobs as sports fans know their sport inside and out?” When Tshabalala wakes up the first thing she does is to catch up on the latest sporting updates and breaking news. She also catches up on any games she has missed while covering others and reads the newspapers from back to front. “That’s the only way that I have managed to be at the level that I am at. “If you don’t really love it, you are not going to be interested in finding out more and increasing your knowledge base. “It’s not easy. That’s why sometimes you see some ladies come into it and fizzle out.” She also encourages women not to settle for just the co-presenter job but to rather aspire to have their own shows. @mane_mpi