Johannesburg - Police have confirmed that a manager of the well-known Vilakazi Street restaurant Sakhumzi was shot and killed during the early hours of Sunday morning.According to Gauteng Police spokesperson, Captain Kay Makhubele, the restaurant had closed for the evening and staff were busy cashing up when two men came to the entrance of the restaurant. The manager approached them to tell them that the restaurant was closed and they shot him several times after he refused to let them in. He died on the scene and the men fled the area following the shooting, Makhubele said. He also confirmed that the manager was 60-years-old. We are investigating a case of murder and we have launched a manhunt to find the suspects responsible. We are appealing to anyone with information to please come forward, Makhubele added. Following the news, Twitter was abuzz with reactions, many shocked and saddened by what had happened. @PhokojoeM expressed her sadness about why this happened. I guess the price to pay for success is that high more like priceless. Why did a 60 year old have to die like that? she questioned. @Itu_Molapisi said that instead of giving support towards black excellence we'd rather destroy our fellow successful black businessman #Sakhumzi. An angry @neozaneozaMda suggested that the only solution he saw was to affect mob justice. Especially because we know these thugs! @Gustav_Ndaba advised that when someone pulls out a gun you need to cooperate, life can't be replaced, money can MOST times , while @AndileMathobela called for the death penalty to be reinstated because criminals have it easy in South Africa . In a separate incident over the weekend, Rhythm City actor and SA s Got Talent judge, Jamie Bartlett was hijacked and robbed in Brixton. &quot;The men pointed him with a firearm while he was waiting at a traffic light and got into his Mercedes Benz vehicle. They held Bartlett at gunpoint and at one stage stuffed him into the boot of his vehicle while they drove around with him,&quot; he explained. Makhubele said he was also hit in the face by the suspects before being thrown out of the car and into open veld in Zonkizizwe near Katlehong. After being hit in the face, he was unsure of he was and waited until it was morning where he was able to get help and call police from a nearby house, Makhubele said. &quot;He was robbed of his vehicle, cellphone, a shoulder bag and two gold rings all valued together at around R1.2 million,&quot; he said. Makhubele added that police were looking for three suspects who were involved in Bartlett's assault and hijacking. @Lanc02 ilanit.chernick@inl.co.za The Star