Johannesburg - Tlangi Mogale s love of fashion has inspired her to revamp the ANC regalia, a design that has now taken social media by storm. Mogale started designing her own clothes in 2010. I never liked the old designs that they had, and as an ANC member I wanted to look good in the clothes I was wearing, she said.She had a full-time job then and worked on her passion part-time. She would design clothes and wear them with her friends and then post them on social media pages. People would be excited to see the clothing and would ask me how they could order the outfits. Celebrities also got on the bandwagon and posted pictures of themselves in some of the more popular items, like the khaki jumpsuit that was all over Instagram last year. Generations actress Letoya Makhene, TV presenter Mbali Nkosi and musician Thembi Seete have been seen wearing the jumpsuit. Mogale soon started making more money off her clothing than she was making at her actual job. She now focuses on the business and has expanded her brand outside of the ANC. I was so happy with all the feedback we were getting. People would ask me how they could get the clothes that weren t branded, so I opened two other boutiques that also sell regular clothing, she said. She works with a tailor for both her Chiefkazi Coutureboutiques, one in Joburg's Gandhi Square and the other in Pretoria, where she is based. Mogale sources her clothing from various places and makes sure to keep her items trendy. We vary from kiddies' clothing to formal wear. Usually it depends on the events that are happening and, of course, the trends of the time, she said. For the ANC 105th anniversary celebration Mogale said the trends to look out for would be shorts, vests, loafers and dresses. You have to always check the weather when choosing the right outfit. Sunday will be cool earlier and hot later, so people must come prepared. Prices for the clothes range from R50 for a beanie to R650 for shoes and the shirts, and dresses and other items start from R150. The Star