Johannesburg Private investigators who have spent several years trying to track down missing businessman Nazeer Mohammed have taken the case to the Hawks in the hope that it will bring closure for the family. Mohammed disappeared more than four years ago from his car dealership in Jeppestown, Joburg, after he climbed into a black Nissan Navara with three unidentified men.IRS Forensic Investigations, who have been working closely on the case since 2012, have made representations to the chief prosecutor of the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court to have charges of kidnapping brought against two men who have been found guilty only of being in possession of Mohammed's belongings.Rotshidza Netshiavha and Robert Nemabhaka were sentenced to six years in prison last year after being found guilty of stealing two of the missing businessman's cars and his cellphone from the dealership. The phone was later found in Limpopo. Search goes on for missing car dealerGlenda Paul, a director of IRS, said she and her team would not rest until those responsible for Mohammed s disappearance were brought to justice. The National Prosecuting Authority has approved the appeal for the kidnapping case to be reopened and this will hopefully bring some closure to the family, said Paul.It is believed the kidnapping case was at first not pursued because of a lack of evidence provided. We have worked with the SAPS Victim Identification Unit on this case and are following up all leads regarding the alleged kidnapping, said Paul. She, however, noted that the unit was concerned at the apparent lack of interest displayed by the investigating officer at station level. For that reason we will be requesting that the docket be escalated to the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (the Hawks), said Paul. Abei Mohammed, Nazeer s father, told The Star that even though the two suspects were sentenced to six years in prison, their son was still missing and the police had to continue investigating the case. We don t want this to become a cold case. We want the police to reinstate the kidnapping case. We feel that the warrant officer from Jeppe police station is in favour of the criminals and does not want the kidnapping case to be reinstated, he said.The father added that the family were not coping and deserved closure after four long years. I don t know where my son is. We are actually going mad. We are worried sitting here. We are getting sick of all this.&quot;&quot;We want closure on this matter, Abei said. Despite enquiries sent to Jeppe police station on Friday, spokesperson Captain Richard Munyai was unable to give comment by the time of publication. @heidigiokosThe Star