Johannesburg It's been a tumultuous few days across Gauteng with several crime-related incidents keeping police on high alert.On Sunday night, a robber was shot and three others arrested after the four men broke in and robbed an American Swiss inside the mall.Gauteng Police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele said the incident happened just before 11pm. The suspect that was shot was taken to Sebokeng Hospital under police guard. The three others have been detained in the police cells in Vanderbijlpark.&quot; Jewelry and goods stolen to the value of R600 000 were recovered and a case of business robbery has been opened, he said.In a separate incident Makhubele said that police made a huge breakthrough following the arrest of a suspect believed to be the ringleader of a gang responsible for hijackings in Ekurhuleni. A 50-year-old man was arrested on Saturday in Springs Ekurhuleni for possession of suspected hijacked and stolen vehicles.&quot; Police and Tracker Unit were following up on information about a hijacked vehicle, he explained. Makhubele said the information led the investigators to a house where the hijacked vehicle was recovered. Police also discovered that the house was used as a chop-shop as other stripped cars and various car parts were found in the yard and inside the house.&quot; Preliminary investigation revealed that the owner of the house also owns a scrapyard in Springs. That is where the police found four more cars that were reported stolen in Ekurhuleni and other cars that had been tampered with, Makhubele revealed.He added that police were hoping to make more arrests soon and that the arrested suspect was expected to appear at Springs Magistrate's Court soon.In a separate incident, the body of a 35-year-old man, believed to be an illegal miner, was found on the side of the N12 freeway on late on Friday afternoon. According to a witness, he was sitting with the deceased and other friends at a mine shaft in Benoni on Thursday when they were accosted by four men driving in a white bakkie, Makhubele said. It is alleged that the four suspects started firing shots at the victims and the deceased was seriously injured.&quot; On Friday they (the friends) realised the deceased was in serious distress, they took him to the N12 freeway and contacted the ambulance and police. On arrival, the paramedics certified the man dead, he said.A case of murder has been opened and an investigation is underway.On a lighter note, a successful drug busy conducted by the SA Police Services (SAPS) and the K9 Unit together with the Krugersdorp and the Randfontein Community Policing Forum (CPF) led authorities to seize 8 000 dagga plants worth estimated value of R3 million in Kromdraai. An investigation into the cultivation of dagga in the Kromdraai area, led to a search and seizure of dagga worth millions, Makhubele said.He said that information was obtained regarding the existence of the dagga plantation and investigation confirmed it. A search warrant was obtained by investigators and on Saturday and an operation was planned. Members from SAPS Krugersdorp, K9 unit and volunteers from Krugersdorp and Randfontein CPF flooded the area early on Saturday. During the five hour operation Makhubele said the 34 CPF volunteers made the task of SAPS members much easier. The Westrand Cluster Commander, Major General Anna Mateisi expressed her gratitude towards everyone involved in this endeavour. In a bizarre twist of fate Brooklyn SAPS on Friday came across a humorous situation that led to the arrest of two drug dealers who sold dagga to the police officers. The police officers parked their unmarked vehicle for observation duties at the post office in Menlo Park in Pretoria which is known for illegal drug activities.&quot; After a minute or two an informal car guard approached their vehicle and ask them whether they want zol the street name for dagga.&quot; The officers were caught by surprise and asked for the price. One of the officers used her money, that was meant for her lunch and gave it to the car guard, Makhubele said.Makhubele explained that the officers were surprised to see the car guard cross the road and approach the kingpin drug dealer. The whole deal took place right in front of their eyes. The car guard was immediately arrested when he returned with the dagga. The kingpin was arrested shortly afterwards and more dagga was recovered from the dealers hiding place, he added.Both suspects who are in their sixties will appear in the Hatfield Community Court on Monday on charges of drug dealing.Communities have been urged to report any suspicious drug activities, persons, vehicles especially ones without number plates or circumstances to the police immediately by phoning the 10111 emergency number. Information with regards to crime or suspicious drug activity can be given to the police anonymously by phoning 08600 10111 or by sending an SMS to 32211. ilanit.chernick@inl.co.zaThe Star