Johannesburg In what has been a major crackdown on fraud in the City of Joburg s licensing departments, yet another seven licensing centre officials were arrested on Thursday morning&nbsp; on charges of fraud and corruption. </p> Four of the suspects are from the Martindale Bulk Licensing Department, while the remaining three are from the Langlaagte licensing department. The seven suspects will be appearing in the Specialised Commercial Crimes court on Thursday morning. This brings the total number of licensing centre officials arrested to date to 15. The remaining 100 licensing officials who were identified in the forensic report will be arrested in coming weeks. We have also acted swiftly in ensuring that 72 of the allegedly corrupt licensing centre officials are suspended from their jobs. All were given an opportunity to provide reasons as to why they should not be suspended, however their reasons were found to be unsatisfactory. We hope to conduct the disciplinary hearings as soon as possible. Due legal process will be followed at all times, said city mayor Herman Mashaba. Between January 2008 and February 2016, 972 alleged fraudulent transactions at a total value of R14,7 million were identified within the city. I would like to thank General Shadrack Sibiya and his team for their exemplary work, and their no fear or favour approach to rooting out corruption in this city. Working closely with the Hawks, SAPS, the Prosecuting Authority, JMPD and the residents of this city, we will continue to wage war on corruption, he said. The mayor has also appealed to residents for patience while officials continue to rid the licensing centres of corrupt officials. An additional 40 new staff members have been hired and staff members from other sections within the licensing department will be deployed to vacant positions so as to minimise the effect on operations at the centres. I have made it clear that corruption is public enemy number one in Johannesburg. We will not rest until we rid this city of corrupt individuals who enrich themselves at the expense of our residents. We must create a professional public service, which serves the residents of our city with pride, he said. @annacox The Star </p> Johannesburg In what has been a major crackdown on fraud in the City of Joburg s licensing departments, yet another seven licensing centre officials were arrested on Thursday morning&nbsp; on charges of fraud and corruption. Four of the suspects are from the Martindale Bulk Licensing Department, while the remaining three are from the Langlaagte licensing department. The seven suspects will be appearing in the Specialised Commercial Crimes court on Thursday morning. This brings the total number of licensing centre officials arrested to date to 15. The remaining 100 licensing officials who were identified in the forensic report will be arrested in coming weeks. We have also acted swiftly in ensuring that 72 of the allegedly corrupt licensing centre officials are suspended from their jobs. All were given an opportunity to provide reasons as to why they should not be suspended, however their reasons were found to be unsatisfactory. We hope to conduct the disciplinary hearings as soon as possible. Due legal process will be followed at all times, said city mayor Herman Mashaba. Between January 2008 and February 2016, 972 alleged fraudulent transactions at a total value of R14,7 million were identified within the city. I would like to thank General Shadrack Sibiya and his team for their exemplary work, and their no fear or favour approach to rooting out corruption in this city. Working closely with the Hawks, SAPS, the Prosecuting Authority, JMPD and the residents of this city, we will continue to wage war on corruption, he said. The mayor has also appealed to residents for patience while officials continue to rid the licensing centres of corrupt officials. An additional 40 new staff members have been hired and staff members from other sections within the licensing department will be deployed to vacant positions so as to minimise the effect on operations at the centres. I have made it clear that corruption is public enemy number one in Johannesburg. We will not rest until we rid this city of corrupt individuals who enrich themselves at the expense of our residents. We must create a professional public service, which serves the residents of our city with pride, he said. @annacox The Star