Johannesburg Following predictions of more rain this week, the City of Ekurhuleni s disaster and emergency management services department (DEMS) has asked residents, industrial, religious groups and business communities to be extra cautious of flooding, especially in the flood-prone areas.William Ntladi, spokesperson for emergency services, said flooding occurs when water overflows its normal channels such as streams and storm water drains systems. It occurs also when there is a prolonged period of rain, with continuous heavy falls or in the form of flash floods which are usually associated with severe thunderstorms. Heavy rain may also result in rivers, low-lying bridges, open trenches, furrows and even canals to flood, causing damage to downstream areas that may receive no rainfall at all during the flooding event, he said. DEMS, in collaboration with the South African Weather Services would like to caution residents, drivers and everyone to stay indoors, and off the roads, avoid crossing low-lying bridges and swollen streams where water is above the ankle level. Baptism services in rivers and open water streams spells danger in such weathers as water levels are high, he said.In buildings, advises Ntladi, valuables should be moved to a safe place above the expected flood level. Switch off electricity at the supply point to the building.In rural areas, protect/relocate animals to a safe place on higher ground. Abandon your home immediately if evacuation is recommended, before access is cut off by flood water. Never drive on a road covered by flood water. You do not know how deep it is or if the road has been washed away. If the vehicle stalls, leave it immediately and seek higher ground. Be extra vigilant at night when it`s harder to recognise flood dangers, he said.Ntladi advises residents to listen to the radio and watch TV stations for warnings and they should obey the instructions from disaster management officials. DEMS is on high alert for any eventualities that might erupt as a result. Communities affected by flooding or any life-threatening emergencies are advised to call the emergency call centre immediately to render swift intervention. Every second counts, he concluded.[email&#160;protected] The Star