Johannesburg The EFF says Zimbabwe s governing party, the Zimbabwe African National Union Patriotic Front (Zanu-PF), is afraid of the truth and they all live a lie . This comes after EFF leader Julius Malema said on Monday during a media briefing that Zanu-PF should tell grandfather President Robert Mugabe to resign as he was no longer capable of discharging his responsibilities. Malema said: The Zimbabwean situation is bad President Mugabe cannot even handle a spade when he tried to plant a tree just recently, that is how old he is. He is no longer capable of discharging his duties, and then they nominate him for the presidency again in 2018. We do not hate Mugabe, they can respond and insult us however they want but those comrades in Zanu-PF are a bunch of cowards for not being able to tell an old man like Mugabe to go, said Malema. These statements were, however, not welcomed by Zanu-PF, with the party claiming earlier this week that Malema was a political charlatan with a pro-white agenda . The EFF on Wednesday reiterated they don t hate Mugabe but felt it was time the elderly president stepped down. National spokesperson of the EFF Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said in a statement that Zanu-PF had no political reason to keep Mugabe as president. We will never tell lies; Zanu-PF is afraid of the truth and they all live a lie. But all lies have short legs and now they are exposed because they actually have no political reasons why they have kept President Mugabe in power even when he cannot physically do it, said Ndlozi. The EFF also said they loved Mugabe and this was why they were telling him the truth to go. We love President Mugabe more than all those Zanu-PF cowards who surround him because we tell him the truth. The EFF are the only ones that actually care for the old man; we are caring enough to tell him to go rest and hand the baton to others, he said. They have taken time to respond precisely because our criticism has actually hit home, Ndlozi added. @heidigiokosThe Star