Johannesburg The Vaal Dam has gone up for the 11th consecutive week, however, the Department of Water and Sanitation has made it clear that South Africa is still in a drought. The Vaal Dam has reached 63.4 percent while the national level is just above 53 percent, the department said.However, despite the increase in levels due to recent rainfall the the department said the country must continue to save water. Gauteng and the country in its entirety are not out of the woods. It s not enough. Earlier this month, The Star went on a media tour of the dam where department spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said the province needed significantly above normal rainfall. We have to remember that with high temperatures, there is also a high evaporation rate. The more rain we get, the better. We need to take the message the municipalities say seriously. Meanwhile, Joburg Water announced on Monday that it would continue restricting water supply overnight to several areas around the Deep South, Soweto, Midrand and Randburg, to name a few. This is prompted by a need to curb water usage on some of our reservoir sites that are experiencing high consumption, said spokesperson Tidimalo Chuene. The intention is to reduce escalating water consumption since the announcement of water restrictions by the department of water and sanitation.&quot; Joburg is still under level 2 water restrictions despite the recent rainfall. Water levels at the Integrated Vaal River system have not risen sufficiently to above satisfactory levels. Some of the reservoirs affected include Diepkloof Reservoir, Grand Central Reservoir, Honeydew Tower and the Ennerdale and Lawley Reservoir.Chuene said technicians would be closing outlet valves to several reservoirs between 8pm and 4am, resulting in no water supply at all during these times. This is a method that we have successfully used to stabilise supply in areas around Lenasia, Northcliff, Fairlands and Blackheath, which were struggling with supply in November.&quot; One other factor that contributed to our success in these areas is consumers who have since reduced their consumption significantly, she said.So far, the Joburg metro police department has issued a total of 665 fines to consumers across the city found contravening the water services by-law. The police will continue monitoring wasteful water use.Chuene said Joburg Water was grateful to all those who continued to save water. @Lanc_02The Star