Johannesburg - Registration of delegates to the African National Congress' (ANC) 54th national conference taking place in Nasrec, Johannesburg, continued on Saturday afternoon at the UJ Soweto campus amid confusion. Some delegates claimed that there were other places that have been wrongly allocated to other people for registration. "What I suspect is that our regional secretary is in the NDZ [ANC presidential hopeful former African Union chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma] camp and our branch is [in the other presidential hopeful Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa] CR17 camp," said Dumisani Masina from Ikaneng branch in Mpumalanga. According to Masina their branch was not supposed to participate in the elections after it did not meet the set criteria. However, the branch came to the UJ Soweto campus to verify the status of the participation. "Who signed the papers because there's a nomination documents. I'm the secretary...So apparently there is fraud, they forged signatures,  the secretary  and the chairperson must sign the documents." Masina said they raised their concerns with their chairperson but did not get answers. Mogapi Marino from Matlosana, in the North West is one of the delegates who appeared aggrieved with the registration process. "Right now we have a delegate who is representing us and we are here to fight it. This is very unconstitutional and we going to fight it to the end, if it comes to push we will fight it in court," he said. Secretary general of the ANC, Gwede Mantashe came to the campus to address the confusion, however when he left some people were still complaining.  On Friday, there were reports that the registration process started  on a messy footing. Police at the venue said there was a stampede and an ambulance had to be called after few people were injured. The registration continued until late in the evening and was completed on Saturday 2pm. Doors were closed before some delegates could get their accreditation. African News Agency/ANA