Although still under construction, there have already been numerous burials at the Olifantsvlei eco cemetery because the nearby Avalon cemetery, which also serves the south-western communities, is rapidly running out of space.  Johannesburg City Parks and Zoo spokesperson Jenny Moodley said the new cemetery was a welcome relief for many in Joburg, considering the rapid influx of job seekers into the city, which has brought with it strains including lack of burial space. The 400-hectare Olifantsvlei cemetery lies along the Golden Highway, close to Nancefield and opposite Bushkoppies. It has 12 “cells” or sections catering for all religious and traditional sects in and around Joburg. It is estimated to hold 800000 burial spaces. The cemetery contains many indigenous cultural aspects for many traditions.  This includes the planting of several “sacred trees” - the Ziziphus mucronata - and the establishment of a circular “kraal” which symbolises protection, seclusion and the circle of life. One section has been reserved for Muslim burials. In the meantime, following the accident on the M1 last month in which 42 unknown and unclaimed bodies were being transported in an open trailer, the City of Joburg has started closing gaps in the legislation guiding the handling and burial of the deceased, which will culminate in new by-laws.  The city’s environmental health officials monitored and inspected the funeral service for the bodies, which were eventually laid to rest at the Eldorado Park cemetery. According to the National Health Act (No 61 of 2003) on the management of human remains, local government has a responsibility to issue environmental health certificates to all mortuaries and undertakers in their jurisdiction, and an oversight responsibility to monitor the handling and burial of the dead at local cemeteries. The city member of the mayoral committee for health and social development, Mpho Phalatse, has instructed the directors in environmental health services to investigate the gaps that might have contributed to last month’s M1 incident. Phalatse said it was important to take a deeper look into the current legislation and guidelines that govern the handling and burial of the dead. She added that the city was pleased to see corrective measures on the part of Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital. The environmental health division has released draft standard operating procedures (SOPs) for stakeholders to engage with, and the process will culminate in a final SOP and ultimately a by-law.  “This will address gaps in the regulations and strengthen the city’s oversight function,” said Phalatse.  @annacox