This was the contention of Loxton Aloni, union organiser at APL for the Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied Workers’ Union (Ceppwawu), the minority union at APL. On Tuesday night, drivers were intimidated and forced to return to base by a rogue group, causing readers to miss delivery of their newspapers. Aloni has laid the blame for the unexpected newspaper delivery strike squarely on the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) - the majority union. Aloni accused the union of embarking on an unprotected  strike and “violently intimidating” Ceppwawu members, who he said were not part of the strike and wanted to work. APL managing director Paul Peters told The Star yesterday that between 60 and 70 workers had been dismissed over the unprotected strike, which began on Sunday and intensified yesterday. Newspaper distribution was severely disrupted on Sunday and yesterday due to the strike. Peters said the issue dates back to June last year when a two-year wage agreement was signed with Ceppwawu - effective from July 1, 2016 to June 30 next year - where it was agreed that a 13th cheque (or bonuses) would not be granted in order to retain jobs in what Peters referred to as tough trading conditions. Ceppwawu was the majority union at the time. Peters pointed to dwindling newspaper circulation figures and retrenchments across media houses as a reason APL and Ceppwawu reached this agreement to protect jobs. However, Amcu had since become the majority union, and Peters said its shop stewards came to management last week “with a list of demands” that included one for bonuses. “Amcu took us to the CCMA (Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration), which ruled that we have all the rights (to withhold bonuses),” Peters said, adding that a Labour Court interdicted workers on Saturday from striking. But Amcu, Peters added, went to management again on Tuesday and gave APL a 12-hour strike notice, ignoring the interdict, which expires in March next year. Peters said 64% of APL workers are non-unionised, 25% are members of Amcu and 11% belong to Ceppwawu. Amcu general secretary Jeffrey Mphahlele said yesterday he was not yet in a position to give a comprehensive response as he was waiting for a detailed report from the union’s structures in Gauteng. He said he was waiting for the report to determine who decided to strike without the national office’s permission, adding he was the one who sanctioned all Amcu-led strikes after approaching the CCMA, receiving a non-resolution certificate and giving a company 48 hours’ notice. “We’re a responsible union
and can’t just sanction an un-
protected strike,” he asserted. @khayakoko88