It was celebrations all round in the season finale of
Wedding Bashers as Taryn and Franco Habib walked away with the
coveted prize worth R800 000. The couple whose weeding took place at the
trendy rooftop venue, The Living Room in Maboneng, was voted the best overall
wedding experience by the wedding bashes, Cindy Nell, Siba Mtongana,
Denise Zimba and Zavion Kotze. The grand prize included R250 000 cash from M-Net,
designer appliances from Gorenje worth R200 000, a seven night second
honeymoon courtesy of The Moorings and Air Seychelles, R100 000 worth of
jewellery from Jack Friedman and R100 000 of make-up and cosmetics from
Essence, Caribbean Tan, Lov and Catrice cosmetics. The Johannesburg-based couple relied on some serious
family ties to bring their event together at and it definitely paid off. “We are so surprised, all the weddings in the top five
were amazing, so we are shocked to be honest. But we are currently building a
house so a big portion of the money will go towards that and the rest we are
going to put away for our kids schooling,” said Franco about winning season one
of Wedding Bashers. If you haven’t been following, the show saw 22 wedding
which varied in budget, opulence and theme and whether it was set on a beach, in
a vineyard, an industrial chic area or a five-star train, the Wedding
Bashers’ comments and criticism was always outweighed by an important
golden thread: the love that inspired the occasion. Each week, the four celebrity
Wedding Bashers –  Nell, Mtongana, Zimba and Kotze -
made their way to nuptial celebrations 
across the country where they joined in the festivities and then 
discreetly rated the Big Day.  As the show’s resident fashion expert, Nell was tasked to share her thoughts about
 the wedding gown, garments and accessories while Mtongana dished out 
remarks on the culinary experience. Kotze evaluated everything 
that brought ‘fabulosity’ to the event, or not – from the overall décor 
to the theme, flower arrangements and visual impact.
 And Zimba, the ultimate party girl judged the entertainment. Kylé and Mark Steyn who were also in the running for the
R800 000 prize package, did not win, however they did walked away with the title
of Viewer’s Choice couple. The couple recited their vows in the in Paternoster
amongst their closest friends and family. The four runner up couples each won a R20 000  jewellery voucher from Jack Friedman. Public votes will be announced on the M-net website in a
few days.