In just a few days, a new Mrs World will be crowned right here in South Africa.
Mrs South Africa received the rights to host the event and welcomed the 40 contestants from around the world at the weekend. The contestants were treated to a heritage tour in Ekurhuleni, which included a visit to the OR Tambo narrative centre in Benoni and the Chris Hani memorial site in Germiston. In celebration of Oliva Reginald Tambo’s 100 years, the City of Ekurhuleni alongside the city’s mayoress, Sinazo Masina and the MMC – Khosi Mabaso hosted the contestants, the Mrs World Inc. staff and the president of Mrs World inc.- David Marmell, welcomed the delegation. Yesterday, their activities included a visit to the Lion Park in Lanseria. WILD SIDE: The ladies enjoy a day out with the animals. Picture: Supplied. This week will see the contestants go through the preliminary rounds on Thursday, with the finale on Friday. The main event is set to take place in the centre court at Emperors Palace. GLOBAL GIRLS: Mrs South Africa welcomes the reigning queens at Emperors Palace. Picture: Supplied The current Mrs South Africa, Nicole Capper, 32, a mother-of-two and a pharmacist, took the coveted title home last month. "I was born and bred in Johannesburg and I'm passionate about my city. "I do not only get to represent South Africa, but Johannesburg, at the Mrs World pageant," Capper said. "I look forward to wearing my South African colours and showcasing the true heart of South African women to the world. "I also look forward to making our country proud by bringing home the crown." DINNER DIVAS: In their evening wear for the gala dinner welcome. Picture: Supplied The Mrs South Africa pageant has enjoyed some success on the world stage, with Candice Abrahams taking home the Mrs World title in her 2015/6 reign. Mrs World has been the biggest pageant for married women worldwide. The likes of Mrs America, Mrs Poland, Mrs Honduras and Mrs Philippines will compete for the crown. Reigning queen Giuliana Zevallos Roncagliolo (Mrs Peru) will crown the new queen. “To host Mrs World in South Africa has always been a professional goal of mine. Having had Candice Abrahams win the title in 2016 was a highlight and for us to bring the World to South Africa is a dream come true," said Mrs SA pageant chief executive Joani Johnson. Tickets to the event are available at Computicket.