JOHANNESBURG - A man may have to be buried as a pauper if no one comes forward to claim him following his death in his shack. This unknown man has been lying in a government mortuary for two days as his neighbours claim to not know him. The body was found inside a shack at the Cleveland, “Jumpers” informal settlement and details around the man's death remain a mystery. Councillor Neuren Pietersen of Ward 118 said he was called to the scene on Saturday evening  and that  he spent five hours trying to find means to remove the body. He also said that he received a report from residents that the man had died the previous day before 6pm. “The circumstances surrounding the death were unusual and strange. The ambulance, SAPS and the government mortuary came to the scene  in the evening but the body was only removed the next day (Sunday) at 1pm. Pietersen said the reason the body was not removed effectively and efficiently was because authorities did not know the protocol, with regards to undocumented or unidentified bodies. According to him whether or not the deceased in question was identified or not  it was the duty of the SAPS to remove the body from the scene. He said when he called SAPS in the area, he was told that they could not assist and was told to arrange a private undertaker. After several calls, he was sent from pillar to post while the Cleveland police station refused to take responsibility, he said. Dominic Mahlangu, the  spokesperson for Health and Social Development, Dr Mpho Phalatse, said the body was still in a government mortuary and the department was still trying to trace the next of kin of the deceased. “As soon as people come across death, nobody knows anything. All the community members said they did not know him and one of the main reasons is the fear of funeral costs and implications,” said Mahlangu. According to him, while the deceased’s next of kin would be traced, the body would remain at the mortuary. He said if  there were no developments or progressions in three months time, the man would unfortunately be given a pauper’s funeral. “The man, being unidentified and undocumented, slows down the post mortem process as well. We could not determine his exact age but estimations suggest he is about 50-years-old. On Sunday morning, Phalatse visited the community and assisted in getting the police to act and remove the body to a state mortuary, 19 hours after he was declared dead. ‘’There can be no excuse for this shameful disregard for the dignity of our deceased residents. This refusal by SAPS officials to take responsibility exposed all around the deceased to unnecessary trauma as well as frustration with having to spend almost 19 hours with a corpse they had no means to attend to. I sincerely hope the concerned officials will be dealt with harshly to ensure this sort of thing never happens again,” said Phalatse. The City will embark on an awareness drive to ensure that residents know their rights and that they are empowered to exercise them fully to hold government to account. Phalatse said through policy reforms, the city will ensure all gaps in the process of disposing of the dead are identified and addressed definitively. The City of Joburg will continue to be pro-poor in its approach and serve all its residents with dedication. Executive Mayor Herman Mashaba, has demanded that Home Affairs tables a plan for addressing these challenges with regards to the removal of unidentified deceased people. Mashaba said if  the department fails to propose these adequate plans, the City will have no choice but to institute legal proceedings. The police's Captain Sifiso Mabizela meanwhile, said police officers were not trained or licensed to remove dead bodies. “It is not the duty of officers to remove bodies. Even ambulance personnel cannot remove bodies, only undertakers are allowed to do so. "Police are just called to scene to guard the body, assess as to whether it was a crime scene or not and make sure nobody tampers or interferes with the dead body. Furthermore, there is nothing we can do,” said Mabizela. The Star