Growing up with dyslexia prompted local fashion designer Gert-Johan Coetzee to donate more than 150 books to children at the Place of Refuge 911 in Newlands, Joburg. According to Coetzee, books open up a world of imagination, and there was no better Christmas gift. Yesterday morning, Coetzee told The Star that advocating child literacy and education was a soft spot for him, and he wanted to continue this initiative in future. “It was a challenge growing up with dyslexia but it’s nothing that you can’t overcome with a positive attitude,” said Coetzee. In October, Coetzee, in partnership with Shine Literacy, a non-profit organisation that helps invest in the future of education, collected the books during SA Fashion Week, and dedicated his latest collection to the promotion of childhood literacy. Stories to enjoy with your kids The celebrity designer told The Star that he simply asked  everybody who attended his show to bring a book and place it on the pink runway. “In Madiba’s words, a country’s strongest weapon is education, and for me, having grown up with dyslexia, I know what it’s like not to be able to read. "I feel that when you teach a child to read you unlock a world of possibilities by teaching them creativity and imagination,” said Coetzee. Growing up with the condition, he had battled in school by not being able to read. However, through a positive attitude he has become one of the country's most sought-after fashion designers. “I want children to enjoy books and the worlds they open up for a reader, because that provides a window into a world of opportunities,” he said. “We had planned to take the books to Joburg's Shine  branch next year. But when I learnt about the children at 911, I thought they deserved a treat for Christmas,” added Coetzee. “Not many people knew what it was; in schools they didn’t really understand it. My family turned to home schooling… fortunately we were in a position to be home-schooled. "Still today, my mom and dad are my biggest supporters,” he said. Coetzee’s favourite book was Margery Williams' The Velveteen Rabbit, which he declared was a classic. Top 5 Ke Dezemba Boss jams The beneficiary of Coetzee and Shine Literacy’s generosity, the Place of Refuge, has been completely dependent on the generosity of people and organisations for their daily operations. Dr Pepe van As, caretaker of the NGO, said it was a blessing that Coetzee took the time to give back to the organisation because the children in the facility lacked necessities. * Donations in cash or kind such as food, clothing toiletries and toys are welcome.  To find out how to lend a hand, call 011 477 4909.  Zwane_2li2ls   The Star 