The Idols SA star will be giving her supporters a chance to finally hear her new music. The singer is billed to perform at the 2017 finale Ekurhuleni Comes Alive jazz evening taking place on Friday. The show was rescheduled from last month and will see Mi Casa and Stimela perform as the main acts, with Moremi and Tumi Tladi supporting. This won’t be her first performance at the event, having supported the likes of Ringo Madlingozi previously. “I performed over the past two years and finally I’m going to get to mix my own songs. I would usually do covers because people knew me from Idols and I was always considered as ‘Mmatema from Idols’ and this time it will be ‘Mmatema the recording artiste’. I’m really looking forward to that,” she said. Moremi said she was  excited to have people hearing her new songs from the Love.Praise.Worship album and seeing how they respond to it. “The line-up is amazing. I just dropped my album on Friday. When the show was in November, I thought to myself what was I going to do for the show, so I guess it was a blessing in disguise and it gave me some time to work on it,” she said. Moremi will be performing with a four-piece band. With her live CD and DVD album release, she is focusing on promoting it as much as she can. “I’m so happy that it’s number 21 on the charts and number one on the gospel charts. It’s really amazing and it just got dropped at the weekend, so I’m doing church promotions. A tour will be announced towards the end of the month for January.” Moremi will also be performing at the annual Mapungubwe Arts Music Festival on Saturday in Limpopo and on December 16 she will be performing in the Eastern Cape. “I have a gig in Ghana on the 24th, so I’m spending Christmas with the Ghanaians,” she said. “I’m really just excited about the album. I can tell people you can get my album on iTunes, it’s really exciting.” The December Ekurhuleni Comes Alive event is bound to meet your group of friends’ varying music tastes with a hip-hop, house, jazz and gospel line-up. You can also enjoy a three-course meal, full bar service and a fun-filled evening at The Birchwood Hotel and OR Tambo Conference Centre. It's also a great event to treat your staff to for the year end function. With purses tightening, the world class event is sure to calm you through the unpredictable economy. Tickets are R450 per person and R4500 for a table of 10. To book call Portia Rathebe on 0118970024, email portiar@birchwoodhotel.co.za or visit www.birchwoodhotel.co.za.