Johannesburg - The Royal House of Mandela has called on law enforcement agencies to bring to book those who "shamelessly" benefited from Nelson Mandela's funeral four years ago. Madiba’s grandson Mandla Mandela said they were utterly dismayed by allegations of corruption with regard to Madiba's funeral arrangements in December 2013. The Mandela family broke their silence following Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s damning findings about how the Eastern Cape provincial government demanded millions for preparations for Madiba’s burial in Qunu, near Mthatha. The report was released earlier this month. Read more: WATCH: Millions looted during Mandela funeral, says Public Protector She found that suspended senior ANC leader Phumlani Mkolo demanded R15 million for preparations for the funeral. Mkhwebane found that the ANC Buffalo City regional secretary proposed that the municipality set aside R15m for a number of memorial services in the mourning period leading up to the funeral. Buffalo City Metro eventually made R10m available. “We find it incredulous that while we, as a family, a nation – and indeed the world – were mourning the loss of our elder, icon, leader and statesman some people were allegedly conniving to profit financially by shamelessly siphoning off funds or alternatively allegedly not observing good governance in terms of following due protocol, observing delegations or mandates,” Mandela said in a statement. Madiba died at 95. Also read: Premier Masualle a no-show at PEC meeting over Mandela funeral graft His funeral cost the Eastern Cape Development Corporation more than R22m, which was meant to improve one of the poorest regions in South Africa in the OR Tambo district. The report also revealed that almost R800 000 was spent at fast food outlets KFC and McDonald’s to feed the 3 000 marshals who were deployed across Mthatha to ensure safety at public viewing areas during the mourning period. Mandela said all reasons should ”be tested and tried in a court of law ensuring that the criminal justice system takes its full course and should the allegations be found to be true, the guilty parties should face the full wrath of the law”. Read more: Eastern Cape cabinet blamed for Mandela funeral graft “It is unfathomable that a legacy built on principled action, integrity and a high degree of ethical standards should be so sullied and allegedly be associated with such criminal intent. “We trust that this matter will be dealt with and if anyone is found guilty that they be duly charged,” he said. The Eastern Cape Development Corporation set aside R300m which was meant for refurbishing schools, provide water and sanitation, and improvement of road infrastructure. @smashaba The Star