The National Director of Public Prosecutions, Advocate Shaun Abrahams has been put on notice not to withdraw fraud, corruption and racketeering charges against President Jacob Zuma, pending the outcome of the Constitutional Court. In a letter to the state attorney sent today, lawyers for Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac), the Legal Resources Centre has drawn Abrahams’ attention to the directions issued by the Constitutional Court last Friday. The high court in Pretoria court declared invalid the termination of the appointment of Mxolisi Nxasana as the National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) and set aside the installation of Abrahams as his successor. “Those directions followed Casac’s application for an order confirming the decision of the full bench of the North Gauteng High Court. “Casac’s application was made In terms of s.172 (2) of the Constitution which states that an order of constitutional invalidity is of no force until it has been confirmed by the Constitutional Court,” said Casac’s Lawson Naidoo. The letter states that in light of the directions of the court, “it is not permissible for Mr Abrahams to make a decision on the institution of charges against the President pending the outcome of the confirmation application in the Constitutional Court”. “Mr Abrahams and the NPA (National Prosecuting Authority) will not make a decision regarding the prosecution of the President until such time as the Constitutional Court hands down its decision in the confirmation application,” reads the letter in part. Naidoo said the Constitutional Court’s directions acknowledge the fact that Abrahams is “unable to take a decision relating to the charges against Zuma because his very appointment is in dispute”. “In setting aside the unlawful settlement agreement with Mr Mxolisi Nxasana, the high court also set aside the appointment of Adv Abrahams, pending the appointment of a permanent NDPP. The directions also state that any party wishing to oppose Casac’s application must do so by 19 January 2018. “Adv Abrahams has been requested to provide Casac with an assurance by 5 January 2018 that he will not withdraw the charges against President Zuma and that if he intends to do so, he gives Casac two weeks’ notice of such intention,”Naidoo said. He said should Abrahams fail to provide such an undertaking, Casac could apply for an interdict and may also seek a personal costs order against Abrahams. The Star