It was only a matter of time before the handsome young man would eventually venture to create his own path in music. He recently released his debut album, Written In The Stars - a testament to his passion and spirit. Tladi, has ventured away from jazz and decided to keep it up tempo with a blend of hip hop beats fused with New Age rap. He is one of the supporting acts at the Ekurhuleni Comes Alive jazz evening. His first single off the album is Dirty Dancing. The 13-track album also has songs titled Like That, Chemistry and Fade and features the likes of Thiwe, Cuebur, Phantom Steeze, DJ Smokes and Christie. The 25-year-old singer plans to hold his own at the event tomorrow. The entertainment business is always something he has been involved with, starting off as a dancer and performing alongside the likes of Somizi Mhlongo, Lalla Hirayama, Cassper Nyovest and Khuli Chana. The rising star has travelled the world performing as a dancer and now he wants to show the audience at the Birchwood Hotel in Boksburg tomorrow just what his pipes are made of. The rapper/singer had this to say about his upcoming performance: The Star (TS): Is this your first performance at the Ekurhuleni Comes Alive jazz evening? Tumi Tladi (TT): Yes, it’s my first time and I’m so excited. TS: What can people expect from your performance? TT: They  can expect a more musical side from me, more than turn-up music. I want people to appreciate me as a versatile artist. TS: What are your plans for December? TT: Performing at The Nubian Fest in Hartbeespoort Dam on December 16 and New Year’s Eve in Pretoria on December 31. TS: Are you planning a tour for your album? TT: Yes, we’ve actually been on tour - I just completed my Cape Town tour but we are going to go out more in the country as much as possible. TS: How has the reception been so far? TT: I’m so happy that the people who actually take the time to listen to the album love it, so they are spreading the word and I’m gaining new loyal fans every day. TS: Are there any surprises in store for the audience at the Ekurhuleni Comes Alive jazz evening finale? TT: Yes,there’s one thing I do that no South African artist can do, so I’m excited to see their reaction. Resident MC Hector Motivator will host the December Ekurhuleni Comes Alive jazz evening that will see a hip hop, house, jazz and gospel line-up. MiCasa and Stimela will headline the event, while Tladi and Mmatema Moremi will be in the line-up as supporting stars. It’s also a great event to treat your staff to for the year-end function. Mmatema ready to wow audience at jazz evening With purses tightening, the world-class event is sure to calm you through the unpredictable economy. Enjoy a three-course meal, full bar available, and a fun-filled evening tomorrow at the Birchwood Hotel & OR Tambo Conference Centre. Tickets are R450 a person and R4500 for a table of 10. For details or to book, contact Portia Rathebe at 011 897 0024, e-mail 
portiar@birchwoodhotel.co.za or visit www.birchwoodhotel.co.za