Harare - Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Thursday named a new cabinet, which comprises new and old faces. The Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet, Misheck Sibanda, announced the new ministers appointed by Mnangagwa in terms of Section 104 (1) of the Constitution of Zimbabwe. The new appointments are with immediate effect. Mnangagwa appointed Patrick Chinamasa to the finance and economic development ministry. Chinamasa has been in acting capacity in that portfolio since November 27.  Obert Mpofu was appointed home affairs and culture minister, Air Marshall Perrance Shiri lands agriculture and rural resettlement, Lazarus Dokora retained in the primary and secondary education ministry, while David Parirenyatwa was also not affected in the health and child care ministry. Kembo Mohadi was moved from state security to defence, security and war veterans. Major General Sibusiso Moyo, who made an announcement live on television and radio that the military had taken over on November 15, was appointed foreign affairs minister.  Kazembe Kazembe was appointed sports, arts and recreation minister, Mike Bimha retained the industry and commerce portfolio, only that enterprise development aspect was added to it. Small and medium enterprises minister Sithembiso Nyoni was moved to women and youth affairs, while professor Amon Murwira, a new face, was appointed higher education, science and technology development minister. July Moyo, a top Mnangagwa ally in the ruling Zanu PF party, was appointed local government, public works and national housing minister, while Supa Mandiwanzira retained the information communication technology ministry, but with cyber security added to it. The labour and social welfare ministry went to Professor Clever Nyathi, as Joram Gumbo retained the transport and infrastructural development ministry. Winston Chitando got the mines and mining development ministry and Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri retained the environment, water and climated portfolio. 
Priscah Mupfumira, who was kicked out of government in the last cabinet reshuffle a few weeks ago, bounced back as tourism and hospitality minister, while Simon Khaya Moyo, previously with the information, media and broadcasting services ministry, was moved to energy and power development. Firebrand Chris Mutsvangwa took over from Khaya Moyo, whereas Simbarashe Mumbengegwi who was appointed acting foreign affairs minister on November 27, the same day Chinamasa had been appointed in acting capacity was appointed minister of state for presidential affairs and monitoring government programmes. Mnangagwa appointed as provincial affairs ministers Angeline Masuku (Bulawayo), Mirriam Chikukwa (Harare), Martin Dinha (Mashonaland Central), Webster Shamu (Mashonaland West) and David Musabayana (Mashonaland East). Appointments to the provincial affairs ministries were Cain Mathem (Matabeleland North), Abednico Ncube (Matabeleland South), Josaya Hungwe (Masvingo), Owen Ncube (Midlands), Monica Mutsvangwa, wife of Christopher, (Manicaland) as well as Christopher Mushphwe, who was appointed minister if state for government scholarships in the President’s Office. On deputy ministers, Mnangagwa appointed Terence Mukupe (finance and economic development), Davis Marapira (lands, agriculture and rural resettlement), Paul Mavhima (primary and secondary education), Victor Matemadanda (war veterans), Pupurayi Togarepi (youth affairs) and Joshua Malinga (social welfare). Patrick Chinamasa, as the Minister of Finance and Economic Planning; Obert Mpofu, as the Minister of Home Affairs and Culture; Air Marshal Perrance Shiri, as Minister of Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement; Dr Lazarus Dokora, as Minister of Primary and Secondary Education; Dr David Parirenyatwa, as the Minister of Health and Child Care; Kembo Mohadi, as the Minister of Defence, Security and War Veterans; Ziyambi Ziyambi, as Minister of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs; Major General Sibusiso Moyo, as Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade; Kazembe Kazembe, as Minister of Sport, Arts and Recreation; Dr Mike Bimha, as Minister of Industry, Commerce and Enterprise Development; July Moyo, as Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing;  Sithembiso Nyoni, as Minister of Women and Youth Affairs; Professor Amon Murwira, as Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Development; Supa Mandiwanzira, as Minister of Information Communication Technology and Cyber Security; Professor Clever Nyathi, as Minister of Labour and Social Welfare; Dr Joram Gumbo, as Minister of Transport and Infrastructural Development;  Winston Chitando, as Minister of Mines and Mining Development; Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri, as Minister of Environment, Water and Climate; Priscah Mupfumira, as Minister of Tourism and Hospitality Industry; Ambassador Simon Khaya Moyo, as Minister of Energy and Power Development; Chris Mutsvangwa, as Minister of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Simbarashe Mumbengegwi, as Minister of State for Presidential Affairs and Monitoring Government Programmes. Ministers of State for the Provinces Angeline Masuku, as Minister of State for Bulawayo Metropolitan; Miriam Rutendo Chikukwa, as Minister of State for Harare Metropolitan; Monica Mutsvangwa, as Minister of State for Manicaland; Martin Tafara Dinha, as Minister of State for Mashonaland Central; Webster Shamu, as Minister of State for Mashonaland West; David Musabayana, as Minister of State for Mashonaland East; Ndabazekaya Giyilitshe Cain Mathema, as Minister of State for Matabeleland North; Abednico Ncube, as Minister of State for Matabeleland South; Josiah Dunira Hungwe, as Minister of State for Masvingo; and Owen Ncube, as Minister of State for Midlands. Dr Christopher Mushohwe, as Minister of State for Government Scholarships in the President’s Office. Deputy Ministers Terence Mukupe, as Deputy Minister for Finance and Economic Development; Davis Marapira, as Deputy Minister of Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement; Professor Paul Mavima, as Deputy Minister of Primary and Secondary Education; Victor Matemadanda; as Deputy Minister for War Veterans; Pupurayi Togarepi, as Deputy Minister for Youth Affairs; Joshua Malinga, as Deputy Minister for Social Welfare. African News Agency and Independent Foreign Service