Who could ever forget the horrific crash that claimed the life of veteran actor and musician Joe Mafela in March? The Shebeleza hit song maker was involved in a car crash on the M1 between Houghton Drive and Oxford Road. He died at the scene, sending shock waves through the country. He was 75.  Mafela was an actor on Generations: The Legacy, and starred in local sitcoms, including ‘Sgudi ‘Snaysi, Madam and Eve and Going Up. Award-winning gospel singer Lundi Tyamara died of stomach TB and liver complications in January. The Mphefumlo Wami singer was 38 when he died at Edenvale Hospital. In July, legendary musician Ray Phiri succumbed to lung cancer at Nelspruit MediClinic. A few days before his death, a crowdfunding initiative was started. The 70-year-old Zwakala singer had 10 children, the youngest, whom he fathered with his 25-year-old wife Rabelani, is eight months old. He also had three grandchildren.  During his memorial service at Mbombela Stadium, fans, friends and relatives got down to his music. When his band, Stimela, took to the stage to perform, they left people yearning for more. Crime claimed the lives of Rhythm City actor Dumi Masilela in August and that of DJ and actor Mandla Hlatshwayo in May. Hlatshwayo and his friend were shot while trying to help two women who were being robbed outside Meli Pub in Pimville, Soweto.  Hlatshwayo portrayed the role of Siphiwe Khoza on Generations for seven years. He also featured in Soul City and The Lab. He was also a Jozi FM DJ. Masilela was shot in a botched hijacking in Tembisa, Ekurhuleni.  He was shot and drove himself to hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. He married actress Simphiwe Ngema in May. On Christmas Day, news about the death of singer and producer Robbie Malinga shocked the country. Malinga died in his home in Joburg, surrounded by family. In June, actor Christopher Kubheka, who shot to fame with Yizo Yizo TV series in the late 1990s, allegedly committed suicide. He was found hanged at his Soshanguve home. Other deaths include that of socialite and make-up artist Iko Mash, who succumbed to cancer in July. Actress Michelle Molatlou died of cervical cancer in Bloemfontein, Free State, last week.  @smashaba