The grandson claims the new owners are robbing him of his inheritance. Although the activist fought for the homeless and against land invasion, his grandson Enock Mpanza claims he had been unfairly chased from the home by what he called strangers. But it turns out they are his blood relatives.  Enock said he was homeless, jobless and hopeless after “strangers” occupied his grandfather’s Orlando East home before it was declared a heritage site in 2011. He alleged that since he came out of prison (“four days ago”), he had been sleeping at the  Johannesburg Central police station and the Orlando police station in Soweto. But the relatives claim they saw him long before this past weekend. He was sentenced in 2003 for robbery. Then in 2004 and 2005, his mother and sister died. He claimed that after the passing of his relatives, the family home was occupied by a woman, who he identified as Lolo Sithole, and her six children.  Enock claimed she was someone who resided in the area and had no connection whatsoever with the family. “I was released on parole in 2011 and I went back to the only place I knew as home. I asked them to kindly move out of my mother’s house, and they refused. I stayed with them for nearly two years, but I always avoided being at the house and spent most of my time roaming the streets and with friends, because it was a terrible environment.” He said there were always petty fights and none of the Sitholes were willing to assist him with anything, especially as they were aware that he was out on parole. “Even when I was in prison, they never came to check up on me or bring me essentials. That really hurt me because, as much as we are not related, they occupied my mother’s house my home. And she still stays there up until today.” Enock alleged the Sithole family were after capital gain from his activist grandfather’s name. According to him, tourists had been coming to the house despite not a single Mpanza residing there. “To avoid many things, prison is better. I am okay with it, I just desperately want an ID, so I can get on with my life,” he said. “Straight after” he came out of prison, he said he went to confront the Sithole family and informed them that he would be taking the matter to court, but they had responded “You are stressing us”.  Enock said he felt the new occupants were trying to provoke him, which would lead to his arrest. “They were expecting me to turn
violent, but that is something I am not going to do.  “I will continue sleeping at police stations until this matter has been resolved. My life is at a standstill and I am not free. I can’t do anything,” he said. The Star visited the heritage site and discovered that the Sitholes were his relatives who were using the “Sithole” surname, as it was his
uncle Richard Sithole’s paternal
surname,. Enock’s cousin Gideon Mpanza was left speechless and angered by his allegations. “I just want to emphasise that this house does not belong to any of us.
It is the government’s house.  “We as the family should be discussing what we are going to do to ensure that the legacy of James Mpanza does not die, but instead we are divided,” Gideon said.