Actress and former beauty queen Michelle Molatlou passed away on Tuesday. According to the press statement, the former presenter of TV magazine show Mamepe "succumbed to her battle with cervical cancer" the National Hospital in Bloemfontein. "We are heartbroken to share and confirm the news that Tshegofatso Michelle Molatlou who was affectionately known by all as ‘Michelle’ has passed away," the statement read. "Michelle was surrounded by lots of love with the family and friends. She succumbed to her battle with cervical cancer on Tuesday 19th December 2017 at the National Hospital in Bloemfontein. "While we mourn the loss of a very wonderful, humble and caring spirit, we also celebrate her remarkable life and hope that it serves as an example to young people around the world to work hard to make their dreams come true, to be willing to explore and push the limits, and to selflessly serve a cause greater than themselves." As soon as news of her passing broke, tributes started to pour in on social media:  It is with sadness to inform you all that we just lost Michelle Mojapelo(Molatlou) due to Cervical Cancer in hospital.May her soul find eternal peace...She will forever be remembered..Our deepest condolences and May her soul rest in eternal peace🙏🏻..Family confirmed that everything will be held in Bloemfontein(Details will be communicated)AMEN!! We had plans to cook and feed Kliptown Community this Saturday, 23rd and now everything will change to bid farewell to our Sis who was instrumental and passionate about serving our people..We used her catering equipments,time,transport,etc to serve our people..We salute you Sis and the nation has lost LIFE ASSET..May God bless your beautiful soul and carry all wounded individuals..REST IN PEACE SIS ..WE THANK YOU FOR EVERYTHING..AMEN!!Signed:Ntja!! A post shared by  Ntja-Daddy Motswagae (@ntja_daddy_motswagae) on Dec 18, 2017 at 11:52pm PST Michelle — who was known for her beauty, elegance and style was a consummate professional. She had drawn her inspiration from different people and situations to be the person she was. As the last Miss Black SA, Michelle courageously challenged the stereotypes on beauty queens. She went on to become an actress and has among others acted in Generations, Kgalelo Pelo, In the Name of Love, Mokgonyana Matswale and was a presenter for Mamepe. She then went to corporate and worked for Simeka/ Graphicor and Mortimer Harvey before she started her own successful catering company. She is survived by her two children and parents.