Buying gifts for children is part and parcel of the festive season but recently the level of treats purchased by some parents has become totally ridiculous and unbelievable. This follows South Africa-based preacher Prophet Shepherd Bushiri’s latest extravagant birthday gift for his five-year-old daughter Israella Bushiri. Bushiri took to social media to post images of his first-born daughter in her new ride, a Maserati, worth over R1 million. Bushiri said he always counts himself as blessed during this time of the year because he gets the honour to celebrate, not only one but two God-given gifts in his life. Bushiri buys 6-year-old daughter a Maserati “I celebrate the birth of my Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ and also the birth of our first daughter...It seems like just yesterday when her little palms held my forefinger. It seems like only a while ago when I celebrated that finally I could lift her up and allow her to rest on my shoulders. "It’s been a joy and heaven's honour to watch her grow from being a baby to being the strong and brave child that she is today. I count myself blessed because not only did she give me a reason to smile but she gave me the opportunity to be called a Dad,” said Bushiri. The prophet was not the first popular figure to gift children outrageous and extravagant presents for their birthdays. US deejay and music mogul DJ Khaled, who threw his son Asahd Tuck Khaled a lavish party at LIV At Fontainebleau in Miami Beach, co-hosted with Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs. The 41-year-old and his fiancée Nicole Tuck gifted Asahd a diamond-studded rose gold Franck Muller watch worth more than $100000 (R1m), according to US news agencies. According to reports, the timepiece fits a grown-up and was not meant for Asahd to wear as a 1-year-old. Among other celebrities who love their kids with more than the word love was the son of well-known businessman and socialite Kenny Kunene, Remo, also known as Baby Billionaire Boss. Baby Remo was born earlier this year and has been exposed to a lavish and fashion forward lifestyle. Remo rocks only the top of the range baby gear from Dolce & Gabbana, Ferragamo, Gucci, Juicy Couture and a Cybex Global stroller. On his official Instagram page Baby Billionaire Boss said: “My parents Love me so much even my s**t gets wiped on a @gucci mat lol...My dad @kenny_kunene changing my nappy in a change room at the mall...#proudpapa #KUNENESBLESSED”. My parents Love me so much even my shit gets wiped on a @gucci mat lol.My dad @kenny_kunene changing my nappy in a change room at the mall...#proudpapa #KUNENESBLESSED A post shared by  Remo Kunene (@babybillionairekunene) on Dec 2, 2017 at 4:02am PST Durban tycoons S’bu and Shauwn Mpisane threw a lavish 16th birthday bash for their son, Andile, who was given a R2 million Mercedes-Benz G wagon as a present. It's not 'boasting' if it's real. A post shared by  Andile Mpisane (@andilempisane10) on Jun 20, 2017 at 10:59am PDT In previous years, celebrity kids such as Brooklyn Beckham son of David and Victoria Beckham, and Chanel Nicole Marrow daughter of Ice-T and Coco have received items grown-ups can only dream of. Brooklyn got a $1500 (R19 000) Yeezys delivered by Kanye West himself, while the insanely cute Baby Chanel wardrobe budget would require you to rob a bank.  Zwane_2Li2Ls   The Star 