The Black Consciousness Reader is written and compiled by The Star political journalist Baldwin Ndaba; arts and entertainment pioneer writer Therese Owen; self-regarding storyteller Masego Panyane; online editor for the Saturday Star and The Sunday Independent Rabbie Serumula; and former editor and journalist Janet Smith, with photography and videography by photojournalist Paballo Thekiso. The book’s official launch took place on Tuesday evening at 1 Central Place, Shisanyama, in Newtown, Joburg.     On the night, an atmosphere of invigorating poetry set the tone and mood for the event, steering it away from the usual set-up of a launch in a bookstore. Speaking at the launch, co-author Panyane spoke about how women have put their foot forward in the revolution. “Going into this, I struggled with trying to locate women, particularly those with personal experience of being part of the thousands of students who were part of the movement. You could always see that type of war of them trying to assert their space. “Sometimes they were told this is happening at the expense of the movement, which was uncomfortable, so going into it, I had that at the back of my mind. I was there and I experienced it, but hearing it from them was a bit different.   “We got to understand how they ended up as women in the student movement themselves, supporting each other.  “We also got to hear how they themselves had to try to navigate through the suffering of black students and to get them out of it. What gathered them there was this idea that black students were suffering, and for the women to step in and say, ‘we are going to lead the revolution from the front’, Sometimes it was emotional’ it was difficult.” Panyane said revolutions would not happen in certain spheres of society. “At some point everyone needs to come together and work together collectively. At some point we all need to come together to say ‘here is a common idea and we need to come together on it’. A lot of work needs to be done,” she added.    Smith said she had the privilege of delving into international history. “I think the aspect of this that was really wonderful was that I had to look into aspects of international history before this process came to life when Tupac Shakur’s aunt Assata Shakur, who is still in exile in Cuba, was singled out by Donald Trump as a fugitive. This made me realise that there are these realities that we’re not aware of. There are black people in the US who are outcasts from that dominant white society,” said Smith. “And that carried forward into the next generation. So all these great intellectuals like Walter Rodney, these are all people who young people, of which there are many around here, ought to study and learn about to gain the kind of knowledge that takes you forward.” Smith also had the privilege of interviewing two leaders of the Black Lives Movement, and according to her, they were very pivotal to her developing an understanding of what Black Consciousness is. “Their core focus is that white people need to go back to their communities and deal with that. Their development of this ideology is all captured in this book. It is a privilege to be able to have that research task,” she said. “What were the priorities of Black Consciousness? Through love, it said black people had to redefine their entire outlook. Steve Biko said it was ‘the realisation of the need to rally together around the cause of oppression, to rid ourselves of the shackles that bind us to perpetual servitude’,” the book reads.     Layered in seven chapters, the book explores historic events such as the Soweto Massacre, Biko and the rise of the Black Consciousness Movement, the Art of Black Consciousness and the issue of land in South Africa. It’s an essential collection of history, interviews and opinions about philosophy. A contribution to the World’s Black Cultural Archive, it examines how the proper acknowledgement of blackness brings a greater love, a broader sweep of heroes and a wider understanding of intellectual and political influences.    Texts in The Black Consciousness Reader are accompanied by QR codes for them to be scanned and video footage to be enjoyed by the reader. Further reading in the form of links is also provided.  