Billed as one of the hottest performances, the trio will be joined on stage by the legendary Stimela. Last year, the event ended with a performance by the late Ray Phiri and Sipho Hotstix Mabuse. Also on stage will be former Idols runner-up Mmatema Moremi and an artist who has just released his debut album, Tumi Tladi. The event will take place at the Birchwood Hotel in Boksburg this Friday. The all-inclusive evening will see headline act Mi Casa, who are known for their deep, soulful house music, with elements of urban jazz, keep the audience on their feet with their beats. They have won several awards for their first three albums, and this year the group released their fourth album, Familia - a tribute to South Africa's diverse Mi Casa family. Doubling up the main act line-up are Stimela, well known for confronting the apartheid regime by uniting the nation with their collective sounds, and initially founded by the late, great Ray Phiri.  Supporting these local heavyweights is songstress and Idols Season 10 runner-up Moremi, who became the first Idols contestant in history to host a one-woman show at the State Theatre's Opera Theatre. Mmatema ready to give audience a taste of her music She has performed with the likes of Benjamin Dube, Joyous Celebration and Carly Rae Jepsen. Opening the evening is new local hip hop artist Tumi Tladi. No stranger to the music industry, Tladi is the son of Peter Tladi, founder of the Joy of Jazz Festival. Having established a background in choreography and dance, Tladi is known for his energetic performances on stage and, together with the calibre of performances expected from Mi Casa, Stimela and Moremi, the evening promises to be one for the history books, and is sure to end off 2017 in style. Resident MC Hector Motivator, along with comedians Elton Mduduzi and Smokey Nyembe, will be providing laughter throughout the evening. Mpumalanga comic Mduduzi won Best Audience Choice Award at the 2014 Savanna Comedy Choice Awards and the Best Indigenous Comedy Award at the Satma Awards. Actor, comedian and presenter Nyembe, known for his role in Mzansi Magic TV series Opening Guy and as the 2010 Fifa World Cup final narrator, has performed at comedy festivals around the country. The December Ekurhuleni Comes Alive jazz evening is bound to please varying music tastes with Birchwood’s hip hop, house, jazz and gospel line-up. Enjoy a delicious three-course meal, full bar available, and a fun-filled evening this Friday at the Birchwood Hotel & OR Tambo Conference Centre. Tickets are R450 per person and R4 500 for a table of 10.  For more information or to book contact Portia Rathebe on 011 897 0024, email portiar@birchwoodhotel.co.za or visit www.birchwoodhotel.co.za 