Johannesburg - Unless the City of Joburg addresses the influx of illegal churches in Yeoville, residents have warned that the vigilante violence seen in Rosettenville could erupt in the densely populated suburb. The threat of xenophobic violence comes after churches in the area have encroached on residences, eliciting noise complaints - but by-law enforcement has yet to be seen. Residents have continued to express their fury, claiming the City of Joburg was unable to bring about law and order in addressing these issues. A Pastor Elijah has opened a church in a block of flats on Joe Slovo Drive, and the constant noise from bands, including drums, microphones, keyboards and vocalists, is angering residents. Neighbours claimed they couldn't sleep, their children couldn't study and their property values were being devalued. They further claimed they were verbally abused by the pastor and his congregation when they complained.Satoko Mahlangu said she was constantly harassed by the pastor and his flock when she spoke out. Last week, (after hearing) the noise, I went into the church, introduced myself and asked them to stop the noise. A few men grabbed my body and pushed me out. Later, the pastor came to my flat, screaming and shouting I had trespassed on his property. He went to Yeoville police station to open a case against me. He told the police officer he had an approval letter stating he could operate his church from a Mike Fakude, a City of Joburg official, but would not hand the letter over.It transpired in correspondence from Fakude, seen by The Star, the letter was simply an extension of time for the pastor to get building alteration plans and a consent application approved.The Reverend Tsepo Matubatuba, who represents Yeoville residents, said the matter of illegal churches was out of control.He too had suffered from another illegal church in Francis Street, which has been going for years. The pastor had knocked down the original house and built a church without any plans. He had constantly ignored every order issued. In November last year, the council sent in the Red Ants to remove the chairs, speakers and musical instruments, but he paid a fine, retrieved the goods and was back in business a few hours later.Matubatuba said neighbouring residents were constantly threatened if they complained. I fear that if no decisive intervention is made, this could result in a sad situation, either an injury or death. We need some meaningful reaction to enforce the laws and rules, he said. This could only end in disaster, like Rosettenville, he said. It happens because people don t know what else to do because they are not being helped by the authorities. When people are left to fight their own battles, fertile ground is created for the emergence of all sorts of negative tendencies - racism, xenophobia and other forms of prejudice - as people lash out in their frustration. It s going to be very ugly, he said.Another resident, Papa Mbongo, said: In our city, illegal churches defy court orders with impunity and they don t get punished, but when law-abiding citizens react with anger and frustration, they become targeted, he said, referring to what happened in Rosettenville.He said the Yeoville community was appealing to the council to address these problems.Funzela Ngobeni, member of the mayoral committee for development planning, said the building control department had summoned the pastor to their offices on February 13. We hereby confirm that the pastor is in contravention of both land-use and building-control regulations. His attorney made an appeal for the city to approve both the pending applications for land use and building control, but his request was not acceded to, he said.Elijah told The Star that he had lodged all applications for permission with the council and he was awaiting a response. The city has the right to close the church if we are operating illegally. We went about the applications in the right manner, he said.The Star has received several complaints from residents about illegal churches springing up.Police were still investigating the arson attacks in Rosettenville, where residents burnt down houses that they had deemed were brothels and drug dens. The Star