Johannesburg In suprise raids on Wednesday night, the City of Joburg, together with the SAPS and Joburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) swooped on Rosettenville to weed out drug dealers and prostitution rings.At least 80 law enforcement officers, the K9 Unit, City Power and immigration officials joined in the operation.Loud shouts, dogs barking and chaotic scenes filled the air as police and JMPD swooped on houses believed to be a part of the criminal element.This follows heavy protests on Sunday, where several hundred residents took to the streets, set four houses alight and looted a tavern which they believed were contributing to the rife drug and prostitution problem in the area. Mayor Herman Mashaba, together with MMC for Safety and Security, Michael Sun, and MMC for Development Planning, Fundi Mgobeni, joined police in leading the raid.During the raid, Mashaba said they were there to send a signal to criminal elements that we are declaring war on you . interview with Mayor Mashaba #Rosettenville https://t.co/Z6dvRl6Vriinterview with Mayor Mashaba #Rosettenville https://t.co/Z6dvRl6Vri Ilanit Chernick (@LanC_02) February 8, 2017</blockquote> We are going to make life so difficult for the criminal elements here that they will end up abandoning our city. We are calling on national government to engage with us and assist us, Mashaba said.He thanked law enforcement officers for availing themselves to join in, and encouraged them to make this a successful operation. This is just the beginning, he said.Sun told officers during a briefing that when they visited the area on Sunday, they found girls as young as nine years old being used for prostitution. We are asking you to protect our residents and our people, he said.During Sunday s protests, community leader and resident Simphiwe Hlafa told The Star that the protest was not only aimed at highlighting and bringing an end to drugs and prostitution problems, but also illegal evictions that were carried out in the area. You find that people are evicted out of the houses they are renting with fake court orders. A few days later, you find foreign nationals have occupied those houses, and those houses become drug dens and brothels, said Hlafa. We want our streets to be clean, and we want to get rid of those two elements which have affected our area. He said residents had lost all faith in police, who he accused of failing to maintain law and order in the area. Some of these police officers are corrupt. You find them hanging around houses where everyone knows that drugs are sold there. How do you report criminal behaviour to the same people who are hanging around with criminals? Hlafa asked. On Wednesday, hours before the raid was announced, Hlafa criticised the way in which Mashaba had dealt with the situation. We call upon the mayor to desist from taking advantage of the genuine struggles of Rosettenville community, its plight and playing political games. The community resolved that this movement will remain as apolitical as possible, with all stakeholders partaking as the entire community is affected. Hlafa warned that Mashaba should not endeavour to divide the Rosettenville community or we shall mobilise all these illegally evicted elderly people to go stay in his own house while he relocates to Rosettenville . We further call upon Mr Mashaba to take local leadership very seriously, this struggle is not his platform to attack his opponents, Hlafa said. @Lanc_02The Star