Johannesburg - A senior member of Wits academic staff has been dismissed after he was found guilty of sexual misconduct. According to a statement released on Wednesday night by Wits vice-chancellor Prof Adam Habib, the staff member was accused of sexually harassing colleagues. I have not commented on this matter until now, because the matter was the subject of an internal disciplinary hearing, Habib said. Late last year, a complaint was received by the Gender Equity Office (GEO) at the university, and was subsequently investigated in line with the university s policies and processes related to Gender-Based Harm (GBH). &quot;An independent investigation was undertaken and the staff member was found guilty of misconduct on the grounds of sexual harassment in respect of three complainants, the statement said. Full statement from #Wits following dismissal of a senior professor after he was found guilty of #sexual harassment. pic.twitter.com/WcdP8VTSxQFull statement from #Wits following dismissal of a senior professor after he was found guilty of #sexual harassment. pic.twitter.com/WcdP8VTSxQ Ilanit Chernick (@LanC_02) February 1, 2017</blockquote> The independent panel further found the misconduct to be a dismissible offence, with the panel s outcome presented to Habib on day, who then informed the staff member of his dismissal. The university established the Gender Equity Office about five years ago to deal firmly and categorically with sexual harassment. &quot;We believe that this is an example of where the university has moved swiftly within the parameters of the law to address GBH on our campuses. &quot;The university does not tolerate any form of GBH and as a public institution we are determined to eliminate GBH, Habib said. Again, I would like to make it very clear that the university will not tolerate any form of sexual harassment or GBH. &quot;We have revised our policies, instituted several programmes and conscientised the university community to speak out and act against GBH, he said.The vice-chancellor said the GEO s mandate and commitment to prevent and eradicate gender-based discrimination and harassment at the university remains. I urge members of the university community to work with the GEO to establish a university environment that is free from sexual harassment and sexual misconduct. &quot;Anyone who experiences or witnesses any gender-based harm is encouraged to report such incidents to the GEO immediately for support and/or advice, Habib said.Media reports earlier this week suggested that the staff member harassed three women who work at the institution.He apparently used his position to persuade the staff members to engage in sexual activities with him. The women claimed that he had promised to promote them or help them study further if they succumbed to his advances. The Star