Johannesburg With persistent wet weather conditions throughout the province over the last few days motorists have also been faced with dealing with wet conditions on the road. Paramedics were kept busy during the night attending to several reports of flooded roads, vehicles swept into rivers and stranded motorists. According ER24 S Werner Vermaak shortly before midnight on Tuesday paramedics were called to the scene of a water incident in Vanderbijlpark. Upon their arrival, they found police rescuers already in attendance. Bystanders, believed to have been on the back of the bakkie, explained to rescuers that their vehicle was swept down the river. An adult and a young child was still on the back of the bakkie, Vermaak said. Rescuers were unable to access the two occupants and later managed to use a Jetski to reach them. Both were picked up from the vehicle and taken back to safety. Paramedics from ER24 assessed the man and child, but found that they were only in shock. No one was transported to hospital from this scene, Vermaak added. In another incident before 5am on Wednesday morning near the Eastgate off ramp in the eastern part of Johannesburg, paramedics responded to motorists indicating that a vehicle drove into a flooded area. Paramedics arrived on the scene and found the vehicle several meters into the flooded area, but were unable to find the occupant of the vehicle. The road was closed off and local authorities were alerted, Vermaak said. In Germiston, six people were left injured after a multiple vehicle collision on the N12 west-bound near the Kraft Road turn off. According to ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring, paramedics found that two right hand lanes of the highways completely blocked by vehicles. Upon closer inspection, paramedics found that two large trucks and four light motor vehicles had been involved in the collision. Paramedics found six patients walking among the vehicles, Russel Meiring, spokesperson for ER24 said. Advising motorists to stay safe in these conditions, Vermaak said motorists should avoid entering flooded areas and not attempt crossing flooded low lying water bridges. Weather forecaster from the South African Weather Service, Lulama Cheme (corr) said wet and rainy conditions were set to continue on Thursday, with a slight improvement in the weather on Wednesday afternoon. While there is an improvement expected this afternoon, there will be a redevelopment overnight and we then expect 60-80 percent chances of rain, Cheme Cheme said South Africans could expect improved weather and some sunshine on Friday. [email&#160;protected]The Star