Johannesburg In a miraculous turn of events, the Vaal Dam is expected to reach 100% full on Sunday for the first time in years. This remarkable announcement was made on Thursday by the Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS), which recalled that just four months ago, the dam was sitting at a mere 26%. Currently its level stands at 81.6% and it is rising fast, thanks to the torrential rains that are falling in most parts of the country, said DWS spokesperson Sputnik Ratau. According to projections by hydrologists in the department, Bloemhof Dam in North West is expected to be 100% full by Saturday and eight sluice gates will be opened to avert the dam from bursting. The Vaal Dam will open two of its sluice gates on Sunday. However, despite the rising water levels, the department has appealed to South Africans to continue their adherence to water restrictions until further notice.Explaining what led to the rise in water-levels, Ratau said that in the past week, parts of South Africa had experienced torrential rains due to a tropical depression in KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga and Limpopo. When the storm dissipated it was followed by more torrential rains that were caused by tropical conditions that have their origins at the equator.&quot; Against this background, the department would like to warn all communities that live on the floodplains of the two dams to move as soon as possible, as they would be exposed to possible flooding. He said that in the Northern Cape the Augrabies Falls experienced a life-threatening flash flooding, but luckily no one was hurt or swept away. In the North West with the exception of Molatedi and Klein Marico dams all provincial dams are full to capacity. The department is closely monitoring Mearns Dam in KwaZulu-Natal whose level has risen to an astounding 121.83%.&quot; No one has died as a result of the water level of the dam, but the department, together with the Provincial Disaster Management Committee have warned people living on the dam s catchment to relocate immediately, he said, adding that the Umgeni storage system is currently at 54.32%. The Marico and Crocodile Rivers in the North West, the Vaal, Vals, Wilge in the Free State as well as the Caledon, Upper Orange and Tugela rivers are all flowing strongly. The dams are already filling up and care should be taken downstream of dams and on the floodplains of all rivers in the central and northern provinces.&quot; A number of flash floods have already occurred, driven by high intensity local rainfall in areas such as Newcastle, Wolmaransstad and Koster in North West, Koppies Dam in the Free State and lately near Augrabies in the Northern Cape. Flood warning protocols have been activated to mitigate damage to property and prevent loss of life. The department said it would also keep on monitoring the lower Vaal and Orange rivers, which could impact on Douglas and the farmers downstream of the town. It s very important for the public and authorities to continue monitoring rainfall forecasts, news bulletins, local social media and be very aware of possible flooding in low-lying areas and riverside properties, settlements, floodplains and low water bridges. Do not enter any deep water or fast flowing shallow water, Ratau stressed. @Lanc_02The Star