Johannesburg Joburg ratepayers forked out R135 million in five weeks to keep waste and refuse collection company Pikitup running during a protracted violent strike last year. The money, according to documents seen by The Star, was spent on service providers appointed without going through normal tender processes because of the emergency. The various contracts related to casual labour, drivers, cleaning equipment, consumables and tools and physical security. The urgency, the entity said, arose after disgruntled staff downed tools for five weeks in March and April last year, demanding better pay and the dismissal of embattled then-managing director Amanda Nair. She was dismissed later in the year after internal investigations. A breakdown of costs shows that R63.7 million went towards casual labour, drivers, cleaning and other equipment , R14.7 million for consumables and unspecified expenses while R57.1 million was for security. The expenditure has been described as a waste of resources by the South African Municipal Workers Union s Papikie Mohale (Samwu). During the five weeks of the illegal strike, refuse collection, street sweeping and litter picking services ground to a halt. Stoppages in refuse collection saw the accumulation of waste, posing severe health risks to poorly developed areas and in the CBD. Pikitup, responding to a Star query, said it approached suppliers on its database for quotes and to provide the required resources. Some suppliers indicated that they were unable to assist for fear of violence to their workers and damage to their vehicles, while some indicated that they were incapacitated to assist at such short notice, said spokesperson Muzi Mkhwanazi. It became necessary for the city to consolidate resources to assist Pikitup with the strike. The Joint Operations Committee (JOC) became operational from March 26, 2016. The main purpose of the JOC was to establish a monitoring and control centre from where all clean-up operations and the allocation of additional resources acquired from other entities would be controlled. The contractors provided the clearing of illegal dumping and waste backlogs until the end of April, even though the strike ended on the 10th of the same month. The additional security services were utilised to accompany Pikitup compactors on their daily rounds, to accompany workers in cleaning streets in areas such as the inner city, to safeguard staff and assets at all depots and head office, and ensure landfill operations were not disrupted, he said.However, Joburg Metro Police were already instructed to escort and protect the appointed waste collection service providers. This was necessary to avoid health risks due to infestation of rodents and insects, said Mkhwanazi.Mohale said nothing stopped the entity from undertaking the measures but believed Pikitup acted in bad faith during the negotiations . Initially we raised our issues with (Nair) but she decided to ignore our demands. We wrote e-mails requesting meetings but we were ignored those meetings never materialised but Pikitup suddenly had the money for emergency contracts? he said. Mohale said the expenditure could have been used to address the workers demands. Based on the number of days of the strike, compared to Pikitup s workforce of 5000, the entity hired 9000 temporary workers to clean up the filthy streets. This is a lot of money, it could have been redirected to (Pikitup) workers who are least paid in the metro, Mohale added.The Star