Johannesburg A Joburg community up in arms over drugs and prostitution on Sunday torched a house believed to be at the heart of the problems in Rosettenville. Hundreds of incensed residents took to the streets, setting alight tyres and barricading roads before moving to four houses which they claimed contributed to the crime in the area. Community leader and resident Simphiwe Hlafa told The Star that the protest was aimed not only at highlighting and bringing an end to drug and prostitution problems, but also illegal evictions that were carried out in the area. You find that people are evicted out of the houses they are renting with fake court orders. A few days later you find foreign nationals have occupied those houses, and those houses become drug dens and brothels, said Hlafa. Some of the police officers are corrupt. You find them hanging around houses where everyone knows that drugs are sold. How do you report criminal behaviour to the same people who are hanging around with criminals? Ward councillor Michael Crichton said the community s anger was justifiable, but he did not approve of the violence. Protesters marched to three houses believed to be drug dens and brothels before forcing out the occupants and torching their belongings on the streets. A fourth house was set alight and almost completely burnt. The crowd later moved to a tavern where they allegedly broke in and stole alcohol. A tenant, who refused to be identified, said he had been living at one of the houses for four years and was confused as to what could have led the community members to launch their attack.A self-proclaimed prostitute said: They came in and started insulting us. Then they forced us out of the house and took our belongings to the street and burnt them. Police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo said he could not confirm whether SAPS members engaged in illegal activities. At the moment, a case of malicious damage to property and public violence are being investigated, but no arrests have been made, said Masondo. The Star