Johannesburg Two forensic analysts have confirmed that DNA found on a balaclava matched that of Nkululeko Chonco Mkhululi, linking him to several crimes dating back to 2013.Mkhululi has been accused of dozens of home invasions, two rapes, four murders, 11 attempted murders and 35 armed robberies in and around Joburg. According to senior State advocate Maro Papachristoforou, the suspect's crimes date back to December 2013 when he broke into a house in Belgravia, Joburg, robbed the couple living there, beat the pair and shot at the man before breaking into another house nearby.The trial of Mkhululi has been going on since October 2016, with the State calling several witnesses to testify. On Tuesday, the State brought in two DNA analysts, who produced evidence that the balaclava, which was found in Mkhululi's possession when he was arrested, showed that the blood was his. Papachristoforou said 90% of the witnesses had testified that Mkhululi had worn a balaclava when he committed his alleged crimes. Witness Captain Mmamshedi Phineas Masetla told the court that blood and skin found on the balaclava matched that of the suspect. Masetla made it clear that the blood found on the balaclava was definitely the suspect's, and the only way it was not his was if he had an identical twin. This, however, was not the case.The suspect, however, had previously told the high court sitting in Palm Ridge last year that he was not in Joburg during his alleged five-month crime spree.Papachristoforou told The Star after court proceedings that evidence brought forward by forensic analysts proved the suspect was indeed in Joburg and not in KwaZulu-Natal as he claimed to be during his alleged five-month crime spree. This places him at the scene. The matches show it s his exhibits in several crimes, and confirms common purpose of crimes, said Papachristoforou.She said 1 123 admissions had been submitted for this case. The 25-year-old s charge sheet also showed that he had murdered spouses and pets, raped young women and tried to kill almost a dozen people when he broke into homes in and around Joburg.Mkhululi was brought in by Correctional Services officials as he is serving a seven-year sentence after being found guilty for being in possession of an unlicensed firearm. He made no eye contact with anyone during court proceedings. Today, the State was expected to bring in ballistic witnesses to show that the gun Mkhululi allegedly used is linked to the suspect and several of his crimes. @heidigiokosThe Star