If you ve given away too much personal information to a fraudster, you re not alone. But you need to mitigate the fallout, writes Georgina Crouth.When it comes to divulging personal information over the telephone, it s always wiser to proceed with caution. Sometimes though, the conman is so wily and disarming that you end up giving away far too much information. And by the time you realise it, it s too late.Catching you off-guard especially with a good story is the name of the game. This is why crooks find their victims so easily among the lonely, na&iuml;ve, desperate or distracted. Ray (surname withheld) was utterly mortified when he discovered that he had given a stranger on the line enough information over the phone to cause great damage to his credit profile.He told me: I unwittingly gave my personal information regarding questions asked to me by someone who phoned me on January 16, 2017. The person used my wife s nephew s name as a reference and told me I will qualify for a gift which will be delivered to me if I answer questions put to me. It s a classic confidence trick. Whether he actually knew the nephew or was good at guessing, the conman had him hooked. I was asked for my ID number, work details and also residential address, which I gave out without realising it might be a scam and my details could be used for fraudulent purposes. The next day a gentleman called me from (a loan provider), addressing me by my surname, leading me to become suspicious. Please help me on what to do before any fraudulent activity occurs using my details. I tried calling the number that he d phoned from, without any response, leading me to become even more suspicious and worried. I did not give them any details about which bank I use, nor my account number, but remember being asked about the type of account I have. I am afraid of them perhaps taking out loans with my details but if this happens, do I then go to the police? I am having sleepless nights and only discussed my foolishness briefly with my wife and feel ashamed to discuss this issue with other members of my family and friends because I reacted with answers posed to me without thinking. Ray might be embarrassed about being so free with his information, but identity fraud is frighteningly common in South Africa, which has some of the highest rates in the world. However, given only that information, there s not much that can be done without proof of income and address, bank statements and an ID. The South African Fraud Prevention Service (SAFPS) gives warning: Consumers should treat their ID book and personal documents/information in the same way that they would treat cash that is, don t leave any documents containing your personal details lying around the house, in the car, or in your briefcase. Shred documents before throwing them into rubbish bins, and regularly clear your mail delivered to post boxes, particularly if you have mail delivered to a central area in flats, housing estates, etc. Don t ever click on web links received via SMS or e-mail unless you have initiated the transaction and you are comfortable that it has been sent from an authentic source. The service warns consumers to be extra cautious about sharing their personal information, especially when applying for services online by always checking that they are on a secure site (https\\) and selecting the appropriate privacy settings on social media sites. An example would be where a newly qualified driver proudly posts a photo of themselves displaying their driving licence and new car on social media. By zooming in on the photo, the criminals can see details such as their full names, identity number, have an example of their ID photo, and in some cases even see the number plate on the vehicle. All this information can be used to create a fraudulent identity for the individual. Often, you only realise there s a problem when the damage is done your bank account is cleaned out; someone has maxed out your store and credit cards; you owe money to a company you ve never even heard of; you re suddenly married to someone you ve never met.In Ray s case, he received that dreaded call from a credit provider. Luckily, it didn t go any further.Deputy Credit Ombud, Reana Steyn says: Identity fraud is usually associated with stolen identity books and online fraud. But it can happen anywhere. Some identity fraudsters only need access a few personal details about their victims which they can obtain from something as simple as a payslip, a bank statement which they can steal from one s desk or post box, or even a Facebook page or other social media accounts. With this information, identity fraudsters impersonate you and apply for store accounts and credit cards in the victim s name. They have even been known to apply for, and obtain, duplicate identity documents bearing the victim s name and ID number, and the fraudster s photograph. Identity fraud can go on for months, even years before the victim realises what is going on and by that time the fraudsters have run up enormous amounts of debt in the victim s name and their credit profiles are in ruins. Banking Ombud Clive Pillay has seen this before, too, cautioning information can be stolen in a range of ways: Rummaging through rubbish (dumpster diving); stealing bank or credit cards, identification cards, passports by pickpocketing, housebreaking or mail theft; card skimming; advertising bogus job offers (thereby accessing names, home and email addresses, telephone numbers and sometimes their banking details); phishing; and so forth. It s a stark warning for anyone blithely throwing away payslips, bank statements and other paperwork without ripping them up. If you let your guard down, whether on the phone, social media or simply by leaving out the mail, you are exposing yourself. So clean out your mail box daily. Rip up any accounts or other documents bearing personal information. Especially, don t give out information over the phone. Because you never know who might use them. And if you haven t act swiftly to minimise any potential fallout. * Georgina Crouth is a consumer watchdog with serious bite. Write to her at [email&#160;protected]Follow her on Twitter: @askgeorgieThe Star