For Ambitiouz Records youngest artist Neo, it’s all about living your purpose in life. The 18-year-old who signed to the stable last year recently released his second single, No Pressure. “It’s all about living your life without any pressure from anyone. Even with all the problems in life, it’s about being able to move on and being great. We have to grow and get what we want because nobody can tell us we can’t do anything. We do it by force.” The hip hop artist from Katlehong in Ekurhuleni started dabbling in music from age 12. He would join his friends when they were recording themselves just for fun. “We were influenced by a lot of artists- anyone who made great music really. The best artist for us at that time was Lil Wayne and Drake. R Kelly made good music and Usher. Locally Brenda Fassie, even Kwaito music. We would always dance around the house and listen to the music during braais.”  He was still growing in his music when he got signed by the stable through a high school friend connection. “My first song Baleka was inspired by the people I come across in life, some are people I can depend on and still have in my life now but others are cowards and the song was dedicated to them.” He has also featured on Miss Pru’s song uGesi featuring Saudi, Flame, Sjava and Emtee as well. Neo- whose real name is Thato Meje, said he was working on an album set to be released next year. ‘“There are lots of people dropping this year so I’m going to wait. For this year I am going to drop a few songs and videos for people to get to know me better.” He hopes to collaborate with fellow stable mate Sjava on his album. “I would also like to work with Saudi and other people who are unknown or are underground for some beats.” The most important message he wants people who buy his music to know is that they are great. “We as black people, we are great. We come from a space where we have had to work hard to get to where we are. We learnt how to live from living in the ghetto. We should never look down on ourselves.” Neo’s music video for No Pressure can be viewed on Youtube. @mane_mpi