Independent Media understands that another matter that delegates are up in arms over is that they want the party to contest elections on its own instead of campaigning for the ANC, a move that Nzimande and the party’s officials oppose. So angry are some delegates from provinces such as the Western Cape that they decided that should the party’s second deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila not contest Nzimande’s position, they would nominate another candidate. Nzimande has been at the helm of the party for the past 19 years. Although Mapaila decided not to run against Nzimande, he appears to have been persuaded to take the position of first deputy general secretary, which was left vacant by Jeremy Cronin. The party’s international relations head Chris Matlhako has been nominated to replace Mapaila. Nzimande remains in his post. In the past two days of the party’s congress at the Birchwood hotel in Boksburg, a significant number of delegates have been singing songs in praise of Mapaila. This was while party officials have had to convene provincial secretaries to try to ensure the unhappiness over the “management” of a 
leadership contestation does not flare up in the presence of the media and expose the deep fissures over some issues in the party. The party mandarins were worried that a contestation would weaken the party in the run-up to the ANC elective conference in December, while there was uncertainty over Nzimande’s future should former AU Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma take over the governing party. One delegate who has attended SACP congresses since Nzimande took over in 1998 said the conference was more tense than the one where the leader ascended to power. “I haven’t seen such revolt. The branches are unhappy,” he said. It all started on Monday when Mapaila announced that he believed Nzimande should continue in his post, while the party’s first deputy general secretary, Jeremy Cronin, said he was no longer available to serve. This set tongues wagging. Opening the congress on Monday, Nzimande intimated that he was aware that he had served his time and that he was “old furniture”. While Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa was ushered out of the venue, delegates broke into a song, “thina sifuna i state power” (we want state power). Officials battled to contain this battle cry for state power, and at some point said Mapaila should deal with the delegates, who were mostly from Mpumalanga and the party’s youth wing, the Young Communist League. Ramaphosa pleaded with delegates not to part ways with the ANC. He warned that the two organisations would be weaker if they contested elections separately. “As you ponder on leaving the alliance, pause for a minute. Are we better off united or divided? “You may even delude yourself that we will form a coalition (after elections), only when you get there, there will be nothing. The cupboard will be empty,” he said. But this did not stop some delegates from singing for state power immediately after 
Ramaphosa had finished. The Star