This was revealed by the chairperson of the ANC’s economic transformation committee, Enoch Godongwana, at the 5th ANC policy conference in Nasrec, Soweto yesterday. Godongwana said the branches had been directed to discuss two options: expropriation of land without compensation, or with compensation. “We have handed over these two options to the branches to discuss ahead of the national elective conference in December. Some people were of the view that any form of land reform should take place within the ambit of the law and the constitution. “Both proposals will be tabled at the conference for a final decision on the matter,” Godongwana said. Prior to the policy conference, the ANC Youth League and the party in KwaZulu-Natal were backing Zuma on his call for the expropriation of land without compensation. However, insiders told The Star that those in favour of expropriation of land without compensation had lost their battle, and that the first signs of defeat were evident when Zuma abandoned his call when he officially opened the policy conference on Friday. In his opening remarks, Zuma steered clear from his own call and instead urged ANC members to allow land redistribution “within the ambit of the law and the constitution. “We believe it is possible to find radical solutions to land hunger, working within the ambit of the law and the constitution,” he said. Yesterday, Zuma reiterated his change of mind on the issue when he lodged an apparent attack on the EFF for continuing to encourage people to forcefully grab land illegally. “Those who occupy land illegally should be arrested. Their acts are illegal,” he emphasised. However, Godongwana played down the defeat on the motion of expropriation of land without compensation, saying the two contradicting motions were still up for discussion. “We are, however, going ahead with expropriating abandoned land, especially those belonging to absentee landlords. “We are also going to do an audit of land available, including that belonging to the state, for land redistribution. “We also intend to use 4 million hectares of agricultural land belonging to the state for redistribution and restitution,” Godongwana said.