Meanwhile, Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini kept a low profile, giving no indication of who Magwaza’s successor might be. Dlamini’s spokesperson, Lumka Oliphant, said: “The minister will make an announcement in due course.” The SACP demanded answers after it was reported that Magwaza had left because his relationship with the minister had irretrievably broken down. It said Magwaza firmly supported using the South African Post Office to distribute social grants to 17 million beneficiaries. “Magwaza is well known 
for his firm position in the defence and advancement of the ANC’s resolution, which is also an SACP resolution, that the Post Office/Bank must be given the responsibility of distributing for social grants, as opposed to a private company,” said SACP spokesperson Alex Mashilo. “Among others, Magwaza deposed an affidavit in a Constitutional Court case on the crisis that engulfed social grants distribution.” Cosatu has called for Dlamini’s head and warned that if the wheels come off on social grants, the blame should be put at the minister’s door. Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said Magwaza had been pushed. “We strongly condemn the intimidation tactics and death threats directed at him, and call on Parliament to demand answers over his departure,” he said. “The federation reiterates its position that Minister Bathabile Dlamini is no longer an asset to the department. She is, in fact, a liability. “It is no coincidence that Magwaza had been pushed out when he was due to file papers in the Constitutional Court on why Minister Dlamini should pay legal costs from her own pocket.” The Black Sash also said it was concerned about the departure of senior officials in the government. Spokesperson Esley Philander said they were concerned about whether Sassa would be able to “procure services timeously to ensure the proper functioning and integrity of the agency’s national payment system”. Philander warned that South Africa must not face another extension of the Cash Paymaster Services contract when it expired next March. This followed the Constitutional Court decision early this year to extend the contract for another 12 months while another service provider was being sought.