A fresh musical collaboration is happening this weekend at the Lyric Theatre. Jazz collective Rebirth of Cool- aptly named after the popular compilation album by Miles Davis-and Stogie T (of Tumi & The Volume) will bring a one night only of old school jazz-infused hip hop craftsmanship. The show will bring audiences a fresh interpretation of hip hop and soul and break new boundaries in all traditional musical sense. Stogie T is the moniker used now by one of the countries finest rappers – Tumi Molekane. His career has spanned over a decade and his impact as a rapper, poet, social commentator and record label owner have garnered him the respect of his peers, both locally and abroad. The birth of Stogie T has resulted in a more uninhibited mouthpiece for his generation and through his personal journey he has come to the place where he feels he creatively belongs – making art that resonates with him at this current stage in his life. He will include Pebbles the soul singer who featured on his Tumi & The Volume Live at The Bassline Classic track ‘76’. Also in the mix are impressive young singers Samthing Soweto (who featured on ‘Broke People’ off his album Return On The King) and rappers Emtee and Yanga who feature on Stogie T’s current smash hit ‘By Any Means’. Rebirth of Cool is a collective that is inspired by the post bebop jazz era. It consists of highly trained and skilled musicians that celebrate their genre through the infusion of contemporary Hip-Hop sounds with the more avant-garde notes from yesteryear. The group is made up of Thandi Ntuli on piano and keys, Benjamin Jafta on Bass, Siphelelo Mazibuko on Drums and DJ's Kenzhero (Turntables) and Tha Muzik who created this collective. The band has been touted as being one of the country’s finest groups of improv maestros around. The show will have two 45 minute sets and is set to be one of the musical highlights of the year. Performances start at 8pm at The Lyric on Saturday, Gold Reef City. Tickets start at R150.  