This morning, media personality Anele Mdoda (corr) opened up her home to her colleagues, listeners and neighbours when she presented her breakfast show from her home. Wearing her colourful slippers, she opted for the comfort of her Joburg house instead of Primedia’s Sandton studios where the show is usually broadcast from. This was part of the station’s ‘Home Invasions’, where this week, they went live from houses across Gauteng. Apart from Mdoda, the 947 morning team included Alex Caige on traffic, sassy Thembekile Mrototo on news Cindy Poluta on sport as well as co-presenter Frankie du Toit. During the breakfast team’s ‘Home Invasion’, they travelled from the north to the south as well as the east and west of Joburg to ensure that all types of listeners have a chance to be involved. This was a first for the station who presented their show in areas including Bedfordview, Kagiso and then Bryanston, where Mdoda lives, from Monday. Today, The Star-which prides itself in being a newspaper that connects with Joburg residents at large- joined the team. The only glitch in this was that Wednesday’s planned broadcast in Eldorado Park experienced challenge as the area experienced load shedding at the time. Mdoda and her team were then forced to re-route to the studio where the family who was meant to host them instead joined them there. This morning her toddler son was also part of her home broadcast and was on his mother’s lap at certain times during the broadcast. He was enjoying his time in front of the mic so much that when his nanny tried to pick him up to give him a bath, he began crying with murmurs of his sobs even being heard on the radio. The contents of the the 947 Breakfast Club’s show even featured elements which discussed elements of the home broadcast. Mdoda’s co-host Du Toit chirped that broadcasting from her home was the “height of laziness” but she responded that it was instead “genius.” Listeners then called in to share their own stories of their laziness which had the team chuckling with laughter. Some of Mdoda’s neighbours even came to visit to greet and share their own stories about her.