In a sassy new stage comedy, Keeping Up With The Kandasamy’s star, Maeshni Naicker is Salon Sue. Hugely popular radio, theatre and film star, Maeshni Naicker will make her debut solo appearance in Salon Sue, an achingly funny new comedy about hair stylists and their clients. “It’s a crazy one woman show in a day of a hairdresser. Sue gets along with some of her client and has to just put up with the rest. But most importantly, it’s full of laughs and audience who come out to watch it are guaranteed to have a blast,” said Naicker. “Sue is a fantastic hairdresser but she is crazy. There are moments in the show where Sue can’t tell her head from her tale and she rants and raves the one minute, but the next minute she is completely soft, nice and very colourful,”said Naicker. While Naicker said that she enjoys playing Sue, she admits there was a lot of hard work and intense rehearsals that has taken a lot from her. “It’s my first solo theatre performance, so to hold that space for such a long time is really draining. But as with any other performance, I give it my all and that’s what I’ve done with this role, adding that her favourite part of the show comes towards the end. “I can’t give away the plot, but there is a lovely twist to the story and audience get to see another side to crazy Sue,”she said. Written and directed by Clinton Marius, the show came about when Marius decided that he wanted to showcase the career of a hairdresser. “We all have that crazy stylist that we go to and I thought it would be fun to tell their story, and who better to play the lead than Maeshni. So I specifically created this character for her and built the character around her talent. She is extremely great and plays the role of Sue brilliantly,”said Marius. He said Salon Sue is a jolly tumble through a working day in a small hair salon, showcasing the extraordinary versatility of this much-loved actress. “I love working with Maeshni. Her contribution to my radio drama, Lollipop Lane, which aired on Lotus FM for four years, was a highlight of the show’s appeal with thousands of listeners who tuned in for their daily dose of comedy on air. Maeshni’s unerring gift for delivering a comedy line to perfection proved itself onstage as well when I brought two of my plays, Ladies of Lollipop Lane and Mystic Twisters to Sibaya in recent seasons. Audiences adore her, and they can expect a real firecracker with Salon Sue,” said Marius. Salon Sue will be at Sibaya’s iZulu Theatre from July 28 to 30. Tickets are R120 per person. Bookings through Computicket at branches of Shoprite Checkers, on 086 915 8000 or online at www.computicket.com. Performances are at 8pm on July 28 and 29 and at 3pm on July 30.