This comes as Mamoepa’s death at the weekend was confirmed by the Presidency on Saturday night. Mamoepa, 56, had been battling complications from a stroke since being admitted to hospital five weeks ago. He was at the Unitas Hospital in Pretoria at the time of his death. Heart-wrenching tributes from those who knew and worked with Mamoepa included one from Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, who said this was a great loss not only to himself personally but also to the Presidency. Former president Thabo Mbeki  described Mamoepa as a devoted servant of the people, a loyal cadre, a model fellow citizen and a dean of government communications. “One of his many qualities that those who knew Comrade Ronnie will miss is his keen sense of humour and ability to communicate vital truths in jest,” Mbeki’s Foundation said. Mamoepa is an icon of the country’s liberation Struggle, having served five years of his youth incarcerated at Robben Island prison in Cape Town. After the 1994 democratic elections, he joined the government and served the country with distinction as a communications practitioner. His extensive experience included  ANC communications and various communications roles in government, notably the Presidency, the then Department of Foreign Affairs and 
the Department of Home Affairs. Mamoepa family spokesperson, Groovin Nchabeleng, said Mamoepa’s next of kin had asked the country to join them in prayer as they come to terms with their untimely loss. Nchabeleng added that the family expressed its sincere appreciation to the management and staff of Unitas Hospital, who cared for Mamoepa during his five-week stay. “We are also grateful for all the tokens of support received from members of the family, friends, colleagues and associates from Ronnie’s extensive network around the country and internationally,” said Nchabeleng. He added that the family held a prayer session yesterday at Mamoepa’s home in Pretoria and will also host devotion sessions there for the entire week. DA national spokesman Refiloe Nt’sekhe also extended her heartfelt condolences to the Mamoepa family, saying the party remains grateful for his commendable work as a public servant. Minister of Science and Technology Naledi Pandor said: “I fondly remember Ronnie as a very capable and professional head of communications at Home Affairs department. “We worked closely together, drawing on his ideas for broadening communications and serving the public.” The Nelson Mandela Foundation recalled Mamoepa’s association with the late president, dating back many years, to when they first met on Robben Island. “Our condolences to his wife Audrey, their family, comrades and friends, and to Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and colleagues with whom he worked until he fell ill last month,” the statement read. The South African Communist Party said it was also saddened by Mamoepa’s death. It added that, in his memory, the party would strengthen its efforts to forge the broadest possible patriotic front, in defence of the country’s constitution and the deepening of  
democracy. Congress of the People (Cope) president Mosiuoa Lekota said he knew Mamoepa from the era of the United Democratic Front and as a young star on Robben Island. “He was always a committed and hard-working comrade with a passion for communicating to our nation,” Lekota said. Meanwhile, details of funeral arrangements will be released today. @Sabie_M