According to police, the 22-year-old suspect, believed to have been drunk at the time, allegedly skipped a traffic light before crashing into the group of men. The group were apparently gambling on the side of Bram Fischer Drive in Randburg yesterday morning when a Land Rover driven by the suspect  ploughed into them. Police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo said the suspect drove the vehicle without the owner’s consent after he left him at a pub in Randburg. “The suspect apparently asked for the keys to the car from the owner, saying he wanted to fetch something from the car,” Masondo said. “He then took the car, while being drunk and without the owner’s consent, before he drove into a group of people sitting on the side of the road, and four of them died instantly. Six were left injured,” he said. Masondo said the 22-year-old man would face charges of culpable homicide, driving under the influence of alcohol and driving a motor vehicle without the owner’s consent. Meanwhile, in a separate incident, police said they were investigating a case of murder-suicide that occurred yesterday in Munsieville, Krugersdorp. Masondo said a 39-year-old man allegedly shot his 30-year-old former girlfriend at the home of her new boyfriend. “The woman was apparently followed by this man to her boyfriend’s house where he allegedly shot her before turning the gun on himself,” Masondo said. The pair were confirmed dead on the scene, he said. This is the second murder-suicide incident that has occurred in Krugersdorp in four days. A couple also died when a man shot and killed his partner before turning the gun on himself last week. According to the chairperson and spokesperson of the Krugersdorp Community Police Forum’s sector 3, Piet Sparks, the man first shot the woman twice in the abdomen and then pumped one bullet into his head. “The eyewitnesses saw two people having a quarrel. Then a shot was fired, then a second shot was fired and the lady fell down,” Sparks said. The man allegedly fired another shot in the air as he was walking across the road away from the bleeding woman. “The man then got in his car and shot himself once in the head,” he said. The incident took place on Clifford Road in the suburb of Chancliff. Paramedics who arrived after the shooting found a large crowd there.