The City of Joburg is set to clamp down on developers and builders who build without approved plans and approvals. In what is to believed to be a serious precedent, the city is in the processing a back-dated interdict against a major development company, Balwin Properties Pty Ltd for the illegal construction of some 1 000 units called The Whisken, in Crawthorne. Balwin started building without approvals in place. If the interdict is successful, and the company continues building, the chief executive could face arrest. The city ordered Balwin to cease construction, and although the company agreed to, they continued building. In fact, they have advertised that the units will be ready for occupation by August despite there being no occupational certificates in place. Balwin has no approvals from the city, the registered objectors have not been given a hearing before the Tribunal and the  council has not given any permissions. However, the buildings are already at third storey levels. Balwin claims in papers that The Star has seen, that all the objections have been withdrawn, which is not true. Various residents’ associations, who have objected, maintain their objections are still in place. In another twist, it appears Balwin got a section 7(6)  allowing building to start which, a highly-placed source at the city, was issued irregularly, and is now being investigated as the certificate should not have been issued because there have been no approvals at all. The original land application is still under evaluation rendering construction totally illegal.  In any case, the 7 (6) certificate only lasts three months which has long expired. “The problem with the 7 (6) certificate is to do with National Building Regulations and Building Standards Act . While this act refers to applicable law, the city has to be satisfied that all planning legislation has been complied with before entertaining applications and any above-ground structural work. The certificate is more than a year old and is no longer valid. “I want to see clear evidence of action taken to prevent further construction by latest starting six months after the date of the issue of the certificate.  Apart from being highly irresponsible, issuing the certificate in the first place, it is pure negligence doing nothing about keeping a tight reign on the site works in the absence of ensuring compliance,” said Annette Deppe, ward councilllor for the area. According to Deppe, city notices have been served and the city is now looking at getting an urgent interdict to set an example to other developers as courts rarely grant eviction orders. The city also wants to apply reputational pressure on the developer since the company is listed. Several residents’ associations got together -the Carlswald, the Glen Austin and Vorna Valley formed the Midrand Alliance to get the building stopped. Chris Symons of the Carlswald Residents’ Association  said they had constantly objected to the development, but their objections were totally disregarded. “There appears to be corruption because  the city has done nothing. We have been putting lots of pressure on the city but nothing gets done. If it is true, as rumour has it, that the chief executive is to be arrested that is indeed good news,” he said. Marianne Nel of the Vorna Valley Residents’ Association said residents had been fighting this development for years. “It is not only Balwin, but other developers as well who build when and where they like because the council does nothing. These developers walk all over us residents. We have been fighting this for years, but no one takes notice,” she said. The Star receives numerous complaints from residents who complain of illegal buildings with nothing being done about it. The City of Joburg said there was an interdict which was being applied for.  “The city wants to assure residents that action gets taken when matters of illegal building are reported. Inspectors conduct regular inspections and issue notices where contraventions are found to be illegal. It is unfortunate that some developers choose to ignore these notices, which leaves the city with no option but to approach the court. It should be emphasised that the legal route does come with is challenges, amongst other, the time it may take may take to get a judgement while the contravention continues, as well as the cost attached to such legal action. We are pleading with developers to work with the city and ensure that they receive necessary approval before the commence with construction,” said city spokesman Nthatisi Modingoane. Stephen Brookes, chief executive of Balwin told The Star the company had had a section 7(6) approval from the Joburg Building Control department. He said Balwin has stopped the construction on site and that the future residents at this stage have not taken occupation. @annacox