The menopause occurs when a woman has her last period. For decades, research has centred on this point, which happens in the average British woman at the age of 52, and in the years that followed. As a result, women who still have monthly periods but experience other symptoms of the change can find it difficult to get help. The study found that pre-menopausal women in their 40s and early 50s experience a wide range of symptoms such as hot flushes, pain and exhaustion. For more than one in four the symptoms are often severe but researchers found many of those were being ignored. This is despite the fact that providing women in the early stages of the menopause with the necessary treatment is vital in reducing their risk of developing chronic illness. Lifestyle changes and therapy could prevent conditions related to the menopause such as heart disease developing later in life. Lead author of the research, Dr Sioban Harlow, of the Centre for Midlife Science at Michigan University, said: “We were surprised to find a quarter of women in this 
relatively healthy cohort reported a broad range of often severe symptoms prior to the onset of the menopausal transition.” “We ob-
served some women’s symptoms get worse while others improve as they transition through menopause, so this is a critical life phase for intervention.” The phase is known as ‘pre-menopause’ when women are still having regular periods but oestrogen and progesterone levels have started to fall. The study published in Women’s Midlife Health found one in four experienced problems. The authors used a mathematical model to group 3289 women, aged 45 to 52 years, going through the different stages of menopause into one of six symptom classes. In pre-menopause, 10% of them were classified in the highest symptom class - tending to report a high intensity of most symptoms of the menopause. They were followed by those with moderately intense symptoms such as hot flushes, who numbered 16%. This combined 26% were described as "highly symptomatic" by researchers, and most in need of help. Forty-four percent of women felt milder symptoms, while just 20% experienced no symptoms. Harlow said: “Increased attention to the promotion of physical and mental health in early mid-life is needed, as women’s health needs and concerns extend far beyond menopausal hot flushes. “The way in which some symptoms cluster together may suggest underlying mechanisms, such as inflammation, that put women at risk of 
disability. “It is thus important the health-care community pays attention to the health needs of the quarter of women who are highly symptomatic prior to the menopausal transition.” - Daily Mail