“In this job people think I can prophesy. Well I can’t foresee things. I always pray. We have hope that our prayers will be heard and that people will stand up and fight this scourge,” he said. Mahlobo was addressing the community of Umzimkhulu yesterday with provincial and regional political leaders, and religious leaders. Last week, former ANC Youth League secretary-general Sindiso Magaqa now a councillor and two of his colleagues were attacked by unknown gunmen landing them in hospital. They became the fourth fifth and sixth victims of violence in the area in recent months. Asked whether the intelligence of the country has the capacity to deal with the political killings, Mahlobo said it was incorrect to “point fingers”. “This is a national crisis and we all have a role to play in correcting this problem. There is very little government can do if people are not reporting these things because they happen within your communities,” he said. But he blamed corruption in the security cluster for lack of co-operation from the community. “When people bring us information, they should feel safe. “People must not put their lives at risk by reporting these things. “Some police and intelligence officials tell these killers and the next thing you know the person has been shot dead.” Mahlobo admitted that there needed to be improvements in the capacity and co-ordination between departments fighting crime, saying efforts should be intelligence and prosecutorial-driven to work. He also lambasted those involved in the (ANC) intra-party violence. “We did not join the ANC to be ministers or councillors. The issue of positions and people thinking the responsibility of being a ward councillor is a job, and killing each other must stop,” Mahlobo said. Mahlobo said the assassinations were actions of a few people who did not want to see progress of a peaceful KZN. He asked the hitmen to develop a conscience. “You can’t wake up every day just to kill people. Please help us and tell the police,” he added. He also asked the community and the province to stand together “like they did in the early 90s political violence”. Mahlobo called on the community to use available structures within the district and municipality, including the special task team investigating political killings in the province, to fight against “criminality”.