Dlamini Zuma was speaking to The Star at Fingo Village in Grahamstown yesterday after visiting Umkhonto weSizwe veteran Sindile Moyikwa’s homestead. Moyikwa, 59, died of natural cause a few days ago. He will be buried on Saturday. Before visiting Moyikwa’s homestead, Dlamini Zuma visited patients at the nearby Temba TB Hospital, where she interacted with them as part of her Mandela Day activities. The former African Union Commission chairperson said Mandela was an embodiment of a leader who many could try to emulate. “Comrade Mandela, together with other comrades that he worked with, taught us to love our country. “Our youth should emulate the work of Mandela and many of our leaders by having necessary skills to develop the country. “Mandela loved children and made every effort to make sure that women are protected from all forms of intimidation and abuse. “Mandela taught us to love and protect women and their children. We need to be patriotic and love one another as a country,” Dlamini Zuma said. Dlamini Zuma addressed a public lecture on the African Agenda 2063, organised by Rhodes University’s department of political and international studies. Africa Agenda 2063 is the AU’s strategic framework for the socio-economic transformation of the continent over the next 50 years. It builds on, and seeks to accelerate, the implementation of past and existing continental initiatives for growth and sustainable development. Dlamini Zuma said it was time that Africans started to believe in themselves. “As Africans we must change our mindset and start to believe in ourselves. It is possible for us to build a prosperous and peaceful Africa. We all have to contribute towards that project,” she said. At the Grahamstown tour, Dlamini Zuma was accompanied by, among others, ANC provincial executive committee member Andile Lungisa, who is a staunch supporter of President Jacob Zuma. At the Moyikwa homestead, Dlamini Zuma attended a short prayer service with family members and ANC veterans. “Comrade Moyikwa was a freedom fighter. He fought for this country and we are grateful of his contribution to the South Africa we have today.”