The musician, whose real name is Nkosinathi Maphumulo, has once again been nominated at the prestigious Ibiza DJ awards. He has been nominated in the deep house category, and will battle it out with the likes of British DJ Damian Lazarus, the US’s Bedouin as well as UK sensation Maya Jane Cole. The awards will take place in Ibiza, Spain, on September 26. The event will be held at the acclaimed Hi Ibiza nightclub, where Maphumulo has been a resident DJ since the European summer began in June. He will continue to perform there until the end of September. The ceremony, which seeks to pay tribute to the world’s biggest DJs, has been held for the past two decades. It began in 1998, and has since become a big occasion for the biggest names in electronic music. It rates among the biggest highlights on the music calendar. In a bid to celebrate all those who have contributed to electronic music, the awards consist of nine categories: Bass, Big Room House, Deep House, Downtempo & Eclectic, Electronic Live Performer, House, Tech House, Techno and Trance. The other three awards are non-music and include: Breakthrough, Newcomer and International DJ. In addition to the nine music awards, there are  an additional 12 awards for those already in the industry, namely: Producer, Track of the Season, Record Label of the Year, Ibiza DJ, Ibiza Music Event, Ibiza Night and International Festival, Eco Award, as well as a special award to celebrate the 20th anniversary. The awards are bound to be an exciting affair with over 20 of at least 120 nominated DJs set to take home an award on the night. Some of the biggest names in electronic music have previously been awarded at the event, which takes place in the coastal party playground. Recipients include Armin van Buuren, Carl Cox, David Guetta, Hardwell, Claptone, Matador, The Martinez Brothers. We Are FSTVL, Funktion One, Woomoon, Awakenings, and Suara have also been among the recipients of the special awards. This year, many of these names have once again been nominated, with a few newcomers making the list. “The final list of nominees has been compiled with the help of a panel of industry professionals, and is more extensive than ever. “They reflect a wide range of DJs and producers, including many who remain at the forefront, as well as some exciting new talents,” the organisers said. This is not the first time DJ Black Coffee has been affiliated with the awards. In 2015, he was nominated for the first time as breakthrough DJ, which he won, and then last year, he once again took home the title. This time, he has been nominated for best deep house DJ. Visit djawards.com to vote for your favourite artist.