Local broadcaster DStv is hosting its first Mzansi Viewers’ Choice Awards next month that will create that platform. They have handed the power over to the public and have urged them to vote for their favourite musicians, actors and actresses, comedians and sports personalities. Several of the country’s top celebrities from all walks of life have already been nominated. “With 50 Mzansi stars to choose from, fans have the power to choose who makes it on top of the hotly contested categories recognising the who’s who of Mzansi entertainment,” event organisers said. There are 10 categories for the awards ceremony, to be held on August 26. In the favourite actor category, the acclaimed Warren Masemola will battle it out against Sello Maake Ka-Ncube, Themba Ndaba, Siyabonga Thwala as well as talented youngster Ntokozo Dlamini. The favourite actress category is equally competitive with Vatiswa Ndara, Masasa Mbangeni, Thuso Mbedu, Thandeka Dawn King and Lorcia Cooper going head-to-head. On the music front, fans will have a hard time choosing between the nominees. This includes the best DJ category where DJ Black Coffee, DJ Zinhle, Prince Kaybee, DJ Shimza and Tira will all vie for the top honour. Rival rappers AKA and Cassper Nyovest are also nominated alongside each other in the best music artist or group category along with Lebo Sekgobela, Black Motion and Kwesta. TOUGH ACT: AKA is up against Cassper Nyovest and Kwesta.  The comedic category is also one to look out for. “We’ll see who will have the last laugh when #TeamSkhumba goes up against #TeamCeleste; or maybe the side-splitting antics of Tumi Morake, Mashabela Galane or Thabo Kgaphola will triumph above others in the Favourite Comedian category,” said the organisers. Another hotly contested category is Rising Star, where Amanda Black, Zamani Mbatha, Michelle Mosalakae, Jabulani Hadebe and Andile Phehlukwayo are pitted against one another. Another feature of the awards is the 1Life ‘Life changer’ which aims to recognise unsung heroes who make a difference in their communities. Nominations for this category close on August 4. Voting for all other categories close on August 15. Voting can be done via WeChat by downloading the application and adding mzansimagictv and vote up to 100 times for free. It can also be done via SMS by texting the nominee’s keyword (i.e. the numbers in the brackets next to the name of each nominee - 1A, 2A etc.) to 39201.