nokuthula.zwane@inl.co.za Local hip hop artists AKA and Anatii offer fans what they have been 'wishing' for over the last couple of years, as they launch their duo album. Titled “Be Careful What You Wish For” Kiernan Forbes, 29, and Anatii Mnyango,24, the rappers officially launched their collaborative album for the fans. At an intimate listening session on Friday the duo told the media how the work of art was established. AKA said: “We had been asked by many people who just came to us saying ‘Ah man you guys it's such a shame that you guys are not working together…’ we then decided to do this album and made sure the album should be called ‘Be Careful What You Wish For’ because the fans have been asking.”    AKA said the album was produced between two cities, Joburg and Cape Town in just under a year of recording the local sounds. The duo said that their sound had a South African aesthetic of a studio mix and a 'woza weekend' feel. The ten track album plays reference to religious and biblical terminology and inspirations. Anatii said: “The reason for ten tracks was because those songs really made the most sense. As partners we didn't need to give people too much but I think the vibe really speaks for itself.” “There are albums out that have 21 tracks but they don't have substance. For me it's not about how many tracks you have on the album it's about the content. There are no filler songs and there are no songs to skip on this album,” added AKA. “We don't just make our music for SA but for the world. It's just ten solid songs. Also ten commandments, I don't know if people picked that up as well,” AKA said. Both established artists in their own right, the duo said told the Star that the collaboration was a interesting experience. “What I really enjoyed is how Kiernan really pushes someone when you are in the studio, to make something that is better. This line in the song might be the best, lemme make it the greatest line,” said Anatii. AKA said he loved the way Anatii ‘hears music’. “He hears it in a different way compared to anybody else. He constructs music in a different way which is so interesting and fascinating to me,” he said. The duo is the first to produce a collaborative hip hop album in South Africa, roughly inspired by the global hip hop artist Jay Z and Kanye West. With a five year age gap the duo seem to be a force to be reckoned with and tonight (Friday July 28) AKA and Anatii will be launching their album at  Zone 6 Venue in Diepkloof, Soweto. Entrance is R250 to get you in. @Zwane_2li2ls