In a joint tribute by his children, Mamoepa who died on Saturday after spending several weeks in hospital following a stroke, was described as a “playful man who was simple at heart”. Delegates, including former president Kgalema Motlanthe, Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga and director of the SA National Editors’ Forum Mathatha Tsedu, spoke highly of Mamoepa’s excellent work ethic as a government communicator. But it was his children who stole the show with their heartfelt tales. His eldest son Olefile, 24, said his dad went to jail at a very young age and had limited knowledge of how to be a child. “When you are a kid, your childhood is all about enjoying and knowing the world. And since my dad was a prisoner, he missed out on those moments. “But he sure made up for them when he was with us. He loved fooling around,” he said. Olefile said although his dad was comical and playful, he always took his job seriously and taught him a good work ethic. “As much as he joked around, he equally got his job done,” he said. Mamoepa was a former political prisoner and politician best known for his role as a long-standing, respected government communicator. In his latest role he served as Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa’s spokesperson. Olefile added: “When you are a kid, small things put a wide smile on your face. As you grow older your expectations increase in every possible way and you fail to take pleasure in the tiny special moments of life, but dad managed to take full pleasure.” Sakhile, 18, said his dad once woke him up in the middle of the night, asking him if he had heard funny noises downstairs. “I replied ‘no’, but he insisted we go downstairs to suss out the noise. When we got downstairs he opened the door, pushed me out and locked it. He said to me ‘you are the soldier and I’m the communicator, so listen to my instructions’” His 22-year-old daughter, Muriel, said she wanted to thank her dad for loving their mom. He taught them what love was. “He would come home with only two Magnum ice creams and we would ask him who they were for. “And it was just for him and my mom,” she said, weeping. Her father valued education and made sure they received the best. “I know I disappointed my father with my matric results, but I made sure I made up for it and he saw me graduate twice.” Former Home Affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma also paid tribute to Mamoepa for his significant contribution to the transformation of the department’s image. “One official was reminding me that it was such a pleasure to work with Ronnie because he knew that when he was preparing a statement, a speech or a press release, he would come to you and make sure that your facts are correct,” she said. Mamoepa will be given an official provincial funeral at St Alban’s Cathedral in Pretoria tomorrow. At the request of President Jacob Zuma, flags at all national centres will fly at half-mast.