Well, the BBC’s Come Dine With Me has made that a reality and, for years, given viewers a chance to witness the shenanigans of contestants and their cuisines. The hit show is now set for for another local season, with Come Dine With Me SA promising even more laughs, food and fun. South African actress, television presenter, model, entrepreneur and fashion blogger Shashi Naidoo participated in the show in 2011. ASIAN PERSUASION: Shashi Naidoo looks back on her Come Dine With Me SA experience with fond memories.  She was joined by sportscaster Neil Andrews, TV presenter Ashley Hayden and radio host Sam Cowen, who cooked for each other in the name of charity. Although Naidoo didn’t win the grand prize of R10000 for the charity of her choice, she looks back on the experience with fond memories. “It’s quite a thing eating out and drinking for four nights in a row and then taking four more days to recover,” she joked. Naidoo told The Star that on the night she hosted the other celebrity participants, she made a “tom yum goong” starter, a Japanese-inspired
salmon for her main course, and chocolate mousse for
dessert. “When I was on the show we competed for charity, so it wasn’t so competitive and we had so much fun,” she said. Naidoo’s sentiments were echoed by another former contestant, Jodi Deerling, who also described his time on the show as an amazing experience. The fashion designer said the reality series wasn’t just about food, as it was also entertainment. “I’m not a big cook but I know how to entertain,” he said. “When I hosted, I had a theatrical theme and even had items such as a red carpet at the entrance, as well as a popcorn maker.” Deerling’s advice to those who want to participate is simple: “Be different and have an element of surprise.” The return of Come Dine With Me SA on DStv’s BBC Lifestyle channel comes after a three-year hiatus. The popular culinary series is produced locally by Rapid Blue and is a 12-part series. BBC vice-president and general manager for Africa Joel Churcher said they were thrilled to work with the local production company. “I’m pleased that BBC Lifestyle is joining forces with Rapid Blue once more to offer a distinctly South African take on a hugely popular international format,” he said. In the search for South Africa’s top hosts with the most, episodes will be filmed in Cape Town, Durban, Joburg and Port Elizabeth. The contestants will compete for R10000 in cash prizes. Apply now by visiting www.bbcsouthafrica.com. The application process will close on August 6, with the series premiering early next year. @Karishma_Dipa