Songstress Naima Kay will be giving her fans a taste of something new. “At the moment, I’m rehearsing with my live band. We will be playing a lot of music from my latest album, so I’ll be introducing those songs to familiarise the audience with the new music.” The 26-year-old, whose real name is Lungile Khumalo, chose the stage name Naima Kay, which means peace and comfort in Arabic. The award-winning musician said she would definitely be giving her fans a chance to reminisce with some of her hits from her two previous albums, Umsebenzi and Ngiyavuma, for which she won a Sama Best Newcomer award and a Metro FM Best Female award, respectively. “I will be performing some of the old songs, I definitely won’t leave them out as there are songs from the first and second album that people love. So I’ll be mixing it up with those as well,” she said. POISE AND GLAMOUR: Naima Kay's new album is all things love. Picture: Supplied  The Lelilanga hitmaker said she was excited about her third album All About Love released in November. “As the title says, it talks about all things love. My first single - Uthando - came out earlier this year and people have been loving it. The album itself has many love songs on it that people will appreciate.” Naima Kay previously worked with producers Robbie Malinga and Mojalefa Mjakes Thebe on her last two albums. On this new album, she has added Mondli Ngcobo, Joe Nina, Sphiwe Jula and Wonder Khwela to the mix. “We are promoting the album and pushing it on all media platforms, including radio and TV interviews. I have been getting a lot of support as people have been receiving it well and they like how similar it is to the other albums. “I still have that Naima Kay factor they love with my music,” she said. For the special jazz night, there is a specific song from the All About Love album that she wants to make sure she sings called Khuluma Ngayo. “The song is focused on women and I hope that women will listen to it and will be changed by it. It’s especially for those who have been hurt and I hope it will change them for the better and allow them to talk about their problems. “Whatever is stressing them or issues that have them confused they shouldn’t keep those emotions inside.” The singer said this was an important song with all the women abuse cases that have been reported lately and it was fitting for the Women’s Month evening. “If people don’t talk about their problems, it will eat at them. I’m encouraging them to speak out.” The event takes place on August 11 in Boksburg. @mane_mpi