It was tough on the women’s tennis tour, and though parts of it were exciting, it was isolating. It wasn’t unusual for me to get on Greyhound buses in America at 3 in the morning with drunks and drug addicts to get from one tournament to another. Psychologically, too, it was brutal - like having an argument every day and preparing for another one the next. Which is why I decided to walk away from playing professional tennis at the very young age of 21. After a few years of exploring various options - drama and TV presenting - I eventually found my place in the commentary box as a tennis broadcaster. And I thought I was pretty good at it. I’d chat away, doing what I do, offering opinion, analysing shots. Until one day a new producer started on the programme, and began to lay into me. He criticised all the staff, but he particularly went for me, and spent 10 minutes ripping my technique to shreds. 
I remember swallowing hard to avoid tears. At the time, it felt devastating. But it was also one of those forks in the road. I could either listen to my ego, take deep offence, and walk away. Or 
I could listen to what he was saying. In the end, I chose the latter and decided to work on my technique to make it better; to squash my ego and see what 
I could learn from him. Playing a tennis match puts your ego on the line, and losing it can cut just as deeply as a personal criticism. The most psychologically mature players are able to put losing into perspective even as they play, and enjoy the match for what it is - being healthy, playing sport. The British women’s number one player, Johanna Konta, has now got to this point, with the help of a sports psychologist. And Rafael Nadal believes that playing isn’t always about winning at all costs, but rather, that it’s about self-improvement, too. I’ve been a broadcaster for almost 30  years, and made a career for myself of which I’m proud. But I know how to keep my ego in check, and that I can still improve - that never stops. - Daily Mail