Creatives can look forward to everything from art talks to live music, film screenings and exhibitions. The fair is now in its fifth year at the Turbine Hall in Newtown. Today, people can expect live music from Abby Nurock and experience some artisanal food that will be on sale. Doors open at 11am and the fair will end at 8pm. There will be various projects and exhibitions that will be taking place, and guided walkabouts for both adults and children. Attendees will also have the opportunity to buy artworks, and various art installations will also be on show. One interesting installation is the Ralph Ziman Casspir Project, which is a reclaimed Casspir covered with over 60 million beads. The walkabouts are not so much for art fundis but rather for people who show interest in art and want to understand it better. The walkabouts are aimed at helping children understand art fairs and also teach them the vocabulary to describe art pieces. Fair director Glynis Hyslop said the fair had made its mark as a not-to-be-missed event for art lovers and those looking to learn more about the country’s rich art scene. “With over 50 galleries and exhibits from across South Africa, there’s bound to be something to catch everyone’s eye.” Film screenings will include Peggy Guggenheim - Art Addict, which explores the wild life and influence of the New York art gallery owner, and Herb and Dorothy - a screening about public servants in America who were able to gather one of the most important post 1960s art collections in the US. The Anton Taljaard Exhibition is one of the highlights of the weekend fair. Taljaard bought his first artwork at age 13 and has been an avid collector since. At the TAF exhibition, he will be discussing his love for landscape artist Jacobus Hendrik Pierneef’s artworks. The artist’s techniques will also be showcased by young artists who have been studying Pierneef’s graphic work. One other feature that may be of interest to attendees is fresh produce. The fair ends on Sunday.