mpiletso.motumi@inl.co.za SIPHO HOTSTIX Mabuse couldn’t find his way to The Star building. He drove straight past it. “I was thinking of the Rand Daily Mail, it was that old mentality.” Ray Phiri reminded him that those offices were now apartments. “I took the back roads here, I know how that traffic can be,” he said. It had been a busy day for the two musos as they had been traveling to different media houses to promote their Jazz Evening show at Birchwood Hotel in Boksburg, Ekurhuleni. “They are paying homage to us. Not only as elders but as statesmen of music because what we do (as musicians) we rekindle that beautiful feeling where young couples also start understanding themselves, while giving the adults- the over 60’s- an opportunity to rekindle their socialisation.” Phiri promised the night would be an opportunity to listen to music, have supper and to dance a bit. Mabuse didn't want the fans who came to the Jazz night to look forward to anything in particular. He wanted them to rather enjoy the scope of music of over 50 years. This was an experience to share. “We are journey men. Besides having seen, done that and worn the T-shirt; we still enjoy what we do best. We entertain, we have conversations and this reminds us of who we are because we grew up together,” said Phiri. MUSICAL BROTHERHOOD: The late Ray Phiri and Sipho Hotstix Mabuse shared a true brotherhood not only in music but in life as well. Picture: Dumisani Sibeko  Those who grew up in that era had a brotherhood in music. There was never any ‘beef’ like what we see with today's stars. Phiri adds that the culture of beef' was heavily influenced by the ‘very strange’ American east and west coast hip hop wars. “It actually happened a little with the Kwaito generation. They had this thing of dissing each other. Remember when Senyaka dissed Brenda Fassie and she said to him: Uyazela phi amagents? Ungabo claima...indaba yami’ straight.” Mabuse says for their generation it was more a drive for a purpose. “Ours was to educate in ensuring the legacy of music is sustained beyond us. It’s also out of a respect we have for each other as musicians and as colleagues. The level of competitiveness is driven by improving ourselves and making ourselves better players.” The skills are shared. When Mabuse needs Phiri in the studio, they make magic together. “He’s got certain skills that I can’t get anywhere else so I would ask him and say ‘Ey Chikapa please I want you to come and play guitar on a particular song’ -so his creativity would add value to what I create.” And the recipients of that creation goes to the music lovers. “We respect them, we don’t take them for granted so it’s easier for us to have fun on stage and at the same time get empowered by those who are watching us perform. It’s a two-way traffic and that is the most rewarding feeling you can get because it’s not about him or me, it’s about us,” added Phiri. Is there a mutual love among artists now? “You know I’d always be adverse to making reference to young people because then they become a benchmark of everything people want to be,” said Mabuse. “And that’s what creates animosity between old and young because we are judgmental. Each and every generation has its heroes and it’s got it’s own language that it has created,” added Phiri. He said it was important to receive guidance but every musician should find their purpose in life. “We understand our purpose. We will always pursue what we consider our reason for being who we are,” said Mabuse. So after all these years how do they still stay so relevant? “It runs with the river, we are two tributaries. We are feeding the nation- that’s why we are talking about a purpose. The purpose is to protect, to educate, to serve and socialise. That’s the message we get across the board,” said Phiri. It’s a big challenge to be able to sustain one self beyond 50 years in one area and still enjoy it. “Sometimes I think we look at ourselves surprisingly, when people remind us.” Mabuse said what brought them to this platform was the need to tell their stories. Phiri believes this is their saving grace. “Maybe that’s the honesty that we come out with that propels us to be responsible for each and every word we say because you can take our word to the bank- a man’s word is his virtue.” And for them, it is far more important to communicate everything that is good. “We are given a lot of responsibilities- let’s have fun but it will be more responsible fun. Our lives are based on telling it the way it is supposed to be told. We are lucky and blessed because we still enjoy what we do.” “If I was asked ‘what makes you happy?’, it’s this opportunity that I have to be able to touch so many people with a song, there’s no better way. We are touching millions of people,” added Mabuse.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Often times people confuse them and call them by each other’s names. Or sometimes they call Mabuse Caiphus Semenya or Hugh Masekela. “What the people do understand though is that there is that connectedness between us and that is the music.” It was necessary for them to visit the different media houses and promote the show because they love being accessible to people. “We don’t have bodyguards- how do I keep the people that paid the tuition of my children? We are a special breed,” said Phiri. For the Ekurhuleni Comes Alive Jazz Evening that took place on December 9 last year the legends promised an experience of the men of song. “We have written songs that are older than so many people. Songs that are over 40 years, that’s a generation, a lifetime for others,” said Phiri. Mabuse adds: “We want people to come out with their own experience, we don’t want to spoil that. You are not compelled to say wow, but if it is then you can say it.” And boy, did the show live up to its promise. May your soul rest in peace, Ray Phiri.  @mane_mpi 