The BBC has decided to launch one of its most popular programmes for preschoolers online. CBeebies’ hit show Go Jetters is now also available in South Africa on a new YouTube page. This will make it easier for children to follow the adventures of their favourite characters Xuli, Kyan, Lars and Foz as they travel the world with their teacher, mentor and friend Ubercorn, a funky disco-grooving unicorn. BBC Worldwide Africa's head of programming, Kully Kaur-Bains, said this is because the comedic, educational action-packed content was consumed through YouTube. “Now available across South Africa, the brand-new YouTube page allows preschoolers and their carers to subscribe and watch all of their favourite Go Jetters characters whenever and wherever they like, with new videos added weekly.” She added that there would also be new interactive features on its dedicated website www.gojetters.com, alongside the YouTube page. Kaur-Bains said children, particularly between the ages of 4 and 6, could use the enhanced features on the website for their educational needs. “Preschoolers are encouraged in their learning of geography through a variety of interactive games, activity sheets, apps and video clips.” The online content of the show also enables children to enjoy an interactive experience. “The new digital platform allows parents and children to join the Go Jetters squad in a safe environment and take part in their quests to save the world's most famous landmarks from the mischievous meddling of their nemesis, Grandmaster Glitch,” Kaur-Bains said. She said there are also interactive games such as Starring You, where the kids can create their own Go Jetters video by adding photos of themselves; and Global Glitch where they collect coins to bring out more Go Jetters and take a souvenir selfie. Kaur-Bains explained that one of the reasons for adding digital elements to the programme was because they are so well received on television screens. “The popularity of the CBeebies channel (DStv channel 306) and Go Jetters in South Africa and across the continent has made this a natural addition, expanding on the show and offering families the opportunity to access it wherever they go.” She said they were also intent on making it as educational and informative as possible. “Go Jetters aims to teach little ones about world geography and the natural wonders of the world in an entertaining way, and with the new website and apps available, they can learn even more.” The show combines music, gadgets and disco-dancing to introduce the audience to geography and culture. “Filled with comedy, teamwork, awesome sights and funky facts, each episode offers older preschoolers a fun-filled and action-packed exploration of their wider world,” said Kaur-Bains. Go Jetters apps are also available for download on Apple and Android.