Media House Soul Candi announced the first annual Dance Music Awards (Dmasa) this week. The awards have been created to “acknowledge and honour the accomplishments and contributions of South African dance music 
artists”. All the artists who will be nominated should be “pushing boundaries and driving South Africa’s dance music industry forward both locally and internationally”. The selection of winners will be held online and all votes will be made by the fans. Voting and nominations will be made through the official website and on social media. “Soul Candi is giving the public the power to choose the award winners through a transparent voting process that will not include any panel judges to dictate who the nominees will be,” said the organisers. The awards ceremony will also happen online and winners will be announced in each category. “This not only provides fans a chance to interact with artists and DJs around South Africa, but helps those artists and DJs gain recognition and prestige throughout a wider fan base and audience.” The winners will then be invited to a private honorary dinner to collect their awards. The voting campaign starts next month and the top five in each category will be rounded up in September. The winners will be announced in October and the dinner celebration will take place then. “The evolution of dance music in southern Africa is nothing short of a phenomenon,” said the awards conceptualiser, Ricardo da Costa. He added that dance music’s popularity defied race, age and socio-economic divides. “So why not celebrate it? Dmasa will create a platform for the commercial, the underground, black, white, festival, clubs, males and females of the dance music industry to be honoured by the fans.” Da Costa said he hoped Dmasa would encourage dialogue and create a forum for songwriters, performers and dance music musicians. “Through this exchange, Dmasa hopes to draw attention to the artists and DJs and ideas at work in the dance music industry, and promote greater participation and recognition for South African dance music abroad.”  *  THE DANCE MUSIC AWARDS SOUTH AFRICAN CATEGORIES - Across all dance music genre: Best Male DJ Best Female DJ Best Producer Best Live Act Best Festival Best Music Video (from a dance artist) Best Male Vocalist of the Year Best Female Vocalist of the Year Best Record Label Compilation of The Year Album of The Year Remix of The Year Best International DJ (who has recently toured or performed in SA) Best International Producer (who has had recent success in the SA market) Best Club of The Year (includes clubs, lounges, bars) Best House Record of the Year Best Kwaito Record of the Year Best EDM Record of the Year Best Underground Record of the Year (all non-commercial dance and underground sounds by SA dance music artists) Best Dance Radio Show Award