“It’s very critical that all types of people interact with the (review) process to ensure that there’s (an editorial) policy that informs the public. After that, there would be roadshows,” said a source privy to the plans to develop new policy. The move comes after the Independent Communications Authority of SA (Icasa) in March approved recommendations to nullify the SABC’s editorial policy of 2016. The controversial policy, which was introduced by former chief executive Hlaudi Motsoeneng, banned airing footage of violent protests. Details of the plans to review the policy and the roadshow are set to be revealed on Thursday when the SABC holds a media briefing. “The fact that Icasa struck down Motsoeneng’s editorial policy means we are back to the editorial policy that was in place in 2004. “At the time, the editor-in-chief was the COO (chief operating officer),” said the source. Motsoeneng had, while the acting COO, ordered that the news department report to him, effectively declaring himself the editor-in-chief. The current SABC news strategy is outdated, and this is a worry to the corporation. “In 2004, the editorial policy did not take account of developments in the media, so there’s a need to align that. So, there’s going to be a public launch of the (review) process. The editorial policy review is an important milestone which reverses the subversion of editorial integrity by Hlaudi Motsoeneng when he took control of the news. “The news (department) now reports to the GECO (general executive committee) again, and now we are going into a public consultation phase for people to make inputs about what principles should underpin the SABC editorial policy.” Sources also revealed that there were positive developments related to the SABC’s finances, with improved radio ad revenues as well as the stabilisation of TV revenues. This followed Motsoeneng’s disastrous quota system for radio and TV, which saw the public broadcaster losing millions in revenue. “Licence fees have also improved, so things are looking up.” Meanwhile, the SABC seems to be pinning its hopes for a financial rescue on bank guarantees, as opposed to a bailout, according to sources. The prospect of a bailout was unlikely because rating agencies have expressed concern about the increasing trend of state-owned entities relying on this kind of financing. “Apparently the rating agencies have flagged guarantees and bailouts as issues of concern. But the word 'bailout' doesn’t explain what we (the SABC) are doing. We need a guarantee, and the government is the suretyship.”