Next week Sithole's dream could become a reality, and it would be for a good cause. Sithole, 27, started the Girl Effect sanitary pad drive at her church after learning about the plight of girls. She said the initiative started as a mentorship project for young people in her church and then evolved into the sanitary pad drive. “We started it as a mentorship programme giving girls career guidance and helping them with homework, then some of the girls came to me asking for pads. “I was able to help (some of) them but was not be able to assist everyone,” Sithole said. The Girl Effect, which began at the Oasis of Life Church in Daveyton, Ekurhuleni, now has three high school  sanitary pad beneficiaries. The drive partnered with the Imbumba Foundation, which runs the Caring4Girls initiative that donates sanitary pads to schoolgirls across the country. And it was through this that Sithole decided to tick off something on her bucket list that she was passionate about. “I found the Trek4Mandela initiative was aligned with my beliefs. It is a great combination of reaching dreams and getting involved in keeping girl children in school,” she enthused. Sithole said giving the girls sanitary pads was a way to give young people their dignity. “Sanitary pads are something people overlook. It is so beautiful when you see a girl smile when you hand her sanitary
pads because for them it is one less thing to worry about," she added.. “They now don’t have to worry about using unhygienic things when they are on their periods. "We need to allow the girl child to have their dignity when they are having their periods,” Sithole said. She said trekking Kilimanjaro would not be her last feat to help girls get educated. “My dream is to have a home for girls. It is not enough that we give the girls sanitary pads. They still return home and deal with other issues that stop them from being young people. “They need to be in a conducive environment where they can focus on their studies without having to worry about external factors,” she added. Sithole said the home would be set up as a boarding school where the girls could stay during the week, and receive regular meals, get assistance with their school work and mentoring.