This is what Scopa chairperson Themba Godi remarked to The Star in reaction to yesterday’s sudden resignation of the public broadcaster’s acting chief financial officer, James Aguma, who was also acting group chief executive. Aguma tendered his resignation with immediate effect to the SABC’s interim board yesterday morning at his disciplinary hearing, where he was facing a number of charges. These included alleged financial improprieties and negatively influencing the disciplinary hearing of the SABC’s controversial former chief operations officer, Hlaudi Motsoeneng. SABC interim board chairperson Khanyisile Kweyama announced at yesterday’s briefing in Joburg that, in line with parliamentary recommendations, certain contracts suspected to be improper had been handed over to the Special Investigating Unit (SIU). Where Aguma was implicated, Kweyama added, criminal processes should follow. “Some of them (the contracts) relate to some of the charges around dishonesty and possible criminal activities,” she said. Godi, who is the chairperson of Parliament’s standing committee on public accounts, said Scopa believed Aguma’s resignation was “an admission of guilt” for the SABC’s “financial mess”; and would help the broadcaster to implement its internal forensic audit as well as the SIU’s investigations into alleged improprieties at the broadcaster. “In the past, there have been investigations done by the SIU but there would be no implementation. So, once bitten, twice shy,” Godi contended. “We would want to have those (reports) monitored and timelines and a roadmap to be put in place in terms of how to follow up on those individuals who will be named. “This includes anybody implicated, including Aguma and Hlaudi Motsoeneng - as long as a person’s name is in the report, there will be no holy cows,” he warned. Godi added that Scopa was pleased with the interim board in cleaning up the SABC; and would continue providing the board support to ensure that “the adherence to the PFMA (Public Finance Management Act) becomes a norm at the SABC”. Kweyama pointed out at the briefing that there had been
“no settlement discussions on the table” between the board and Aguma following his resignation.