Over 5000 National Health Laboratory Services (NHLS) workers across the country have downed tools this morning and is expected to leave thousands of patients at risk due to delays. DA’s Gauteng Shadow Health MEC warned that the strike will cause delays for tests pertaining to HIV/Aids, Malaria, Cancer and multidrug-resistant TB. The National Education Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu) confirmed this morning that its members have downed tools. “Patients will also be inconvenienced by waiting for the results of many other blood tests.The NHLS and unions have now agreed on a 7.3% wage increase, but are still in dispute over benefits such as a housing allowance, medical aid and uniform allowance,” Bloom said. He said private laboratories should used as part of a contingency plan, but warned that they might overburdened by state patients’ tests. “This strike could have been avoided if provincial health departments paid their debts to the NHLS so that it can afford to meet reasonable worker demands” he said. According to a written reply by Gauteng Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa earlier this year, the health department owes R696 million to the NHLS. Khaya Xaba, Nehawu spokesperson confirmed that the strike was underway. “We have agreed on the 7.3% wage increase, but we still need to address our other demands,” Xaba said. He said the demands include  a housing allowance of R2 000 a month and a shift allowance of R50, or 45% of their hourly rate - whichever is the greater. Nehawu said all these demands were submitted to the NHLS on February 24, sparking marathon wage talks aimed at having pay hikes by April 1. But, when discussions deadlocked, the unions declared a dispute. All internal processes to resolve the dispute failed and the matter was referred to the CCMA for facilitation. Shabir Madhi, NHLS Acting CEO the laboratory services is unable to accede to the timelines set out by the unions, since the tools and the full costing to enable Proficiency Assessment promotion and insourcing are yet to be finalised and approved by the NHLS Board. “Furthermore, additional Union demands include an increase from the current 74.6% medical aid subsidy and living allowance adjustments,” Madhi said. He said during the strike, NHLS will not be able to offer its full basket of laboratory services, but contingency plans have been put in place.