The group recently returned from Canada after a successful tour and will be launching their Familia album next week. “Canada was a huge success for us. It has been a territory that we have been ploughing the soil of for the last two years. We had a really good time, four amazing shows, playing to large, mixed and diverse crowds. Now the focus is to go and launch the album that we worked so hard at and had so much fun making,” said J’Something. Mi Casa is made up of vocalist J’Something, trumpeter Mo-T and producer DJ Dr Duda. This fifth album was inspired by the band nearly breaking up. They say it was a moment in their career that they will never forget. They had come to a point where it was either they called it quits or sorted out the issues they had. “Once we had sorted everything out and we felt good, revived and refreshed, we decided we need to document this moment somehow and decided to do it the best way we know how, which is through music and that’s why we created this album,” said J’Something. The eight-track album is called Familia because they fought for their family as a group to stay together and it documents the “crucial moment” in the story of Mi Casa.  “Mi Casa were on the verge of breaking up because a lot of small issues had been swept under the rug. It was not like a major argument, it was nothing huge that happened. It was just a pile of things that made us actually realise how important it is to really talk in a relationship and the lesson learnt here is that you have to fight for the things that you love,” added Mo-T. They said that in today’s society, it was easier just to call it quits. But the group decided to rather communicate and be honest with each other to find solutions for their problems. Now the guys are focusing on their launch next Saturday (August 5) in Joburg. They will then launch the album in Durban on August 20 and Cape Town on September 1. They will also be heading to London for a big album launch there. Said J’Something: “We have a whole lot of other shows locally so that’s the focus. We are going to shoot the music video for the single Nana and just carry on making music and being happy and being honest and just loving life; that’s where we are at right now.” The group just invested more money into their visual performance so people can now experience a “whole new level” to Mi Casa shows. The future looks bright for the band as they continue to focus on being happy more than anything else. “We want to strive for one thing as a band and that’s just to stay being happy and doing what we love and I think that is a constant revision.  As we constantly asking ourselves, are we still happy doing this? “So in two years time we will be, hopefully, touring the world and creating a difference making good music and creating some really epic memories along the way.”