The C4G programme traverses the country and distributes donated sanitary towels in an effort to ensure that needy girls have sufficient sanitary pads, said Imbumba Foundation founder Richard Mabaso. C4G is expected to visit the Makeba Rehabilitation Centre for Girls on Sunday, which is Menstrual Hygiene Day. “We will be providing the girls with eight packets of sanitary towels each to make sure that they have enough for the rest of the year,” Mabaso said. Some Trek4Mandela climbers, who summit Mount Kilimanjaro during the year, are expected to hand over more pads to the girls at the rehabilitation centre. C4G is targeting 100000 girls to ensure that they all receive pads, he added. Mabaso told The Star that schools in provinces such as Limpopo, KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape have been grateful to the project for helping them to complete their academic year without disruption. One of the recipients was St Matthew’s Primary School in Soweto, which received an abundance of sanitary towels for disadvantaged girl learners. “We felt appreciated. We have children who don't have access to sanitary towels as their parents can't afford them. It was not just the delivery of the pads, as they also told the girls about their initiative,” said the principal Connie Khuele. “There are 710 children in our school and the campaign gave six packs of pads to all the girls in grades 6 and 7," she added. "The C4G representatives also left two boxes of sanitary towels with the school in case of an emergency,” she said. “We support the campaign, it is a very worthy annual initiative, said Khuele. The Imbumba Foundation, in partnership with the Dis-Chem Foundation, the Local Choice pharmacies and Independent Media, will launch another annual sanitary towel drive, called the Million Comforts campaign, to ensure that thousands of girls in schools receive sanitary towels by urging their customers to purchase and donate them to the C4G programme. The annual Million Comforts campaign lasts from June 15 to July 15 nationwide. The initiative aims to collect 10 million sanitary towels for needy girls. @Zwane_2li2ls