Who doesn’t love curling up on the couch, underneath a blanket with a good book in one hand and a glass of wine in the other? Presenting a love affair of literature and fine wine to tease your palate, here’s a taste of how the written word goes hand in hand with the world of fine wine. Light and easy For something not too heavy, ladies’ literature’s new queen, JoJo Moyes and her novel Me Before You is recommended. Now a major feature film, the story is about Lou Clark, a quirky and creative 26-year old who hops from one job to another. That is until she becomes a caregiver and companion to Will Traynor, a wealthy young banker who is wheelchair-bound after an accident. Determined to show Will that life is worth living, the couple embark on an adventure that sees them get more than they bargained for. A big international hit like this needs a well-matched MCC. And there is no better than Avondale’s award-winning Armilla. An organic wine, it is a celebration of life. Rich and round on the palate, it’s a perfect balance of toasty, warm, hazelnut bread and fresh quince. It would also complement a great girls’ night in to watch the movie together. Full of emotion and drama Emily Hobhouse: Beloved Traitor by Elsabe Britz is a fresh, nuanced look at an extraordinary woman and her lifelong fight for justice. Defying the constraints of her gender and class, Emily Hobhouse travelled across continents and spoke out about oppression. A passionate pacifist and feminist, she opposed both the 1899-1902 Anglo-Boer War and World War One, which lead to accusations of treason. A story like this needs a wine that is characteristic of its terroir and has a full, long aftertaste. This is Zandvliet’s wooded Chardonnay; it is a true wine – mouth follows nose – and offers rich aromas of coconut, vanilla, grapefruit and marmalade. Hit the right spot with a literary pop If you’re like 27% of American adults who, according to Pew Research Centre, said they’d not read a book in the last year, James Patterson’s Bookshots is for you. Each ‘Bookshot’ contains a riveting adventure and action-packed novella, you can read these “books” in an afternoon and the experience is akin to reading a movie. Pair the pop of literature with a wine that delivers on command, such as Diemersdal’s Sauvignon Blanc. This classically-styled wine suits an occasion that is fresh, summery and light. Bookshots matches its instant gratification mood and both can be enjoyed as a lunchtime or sunset “me-time”. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. According to the TOPS at SPAR Wine Show owner and wine marketing disrupter, Andrew Douglas “The wine experience is so much more when paired. Whether it be cheese or chocolate, or something more abstract like art or music, it’s all a sharing experience and that’s the philosophy that underpins our show”. Enter here to win tickets for you and your partner to join us at The TOPS at Spar Wine Show! The Wine Show is Thursday the 8th June to Saturday 10th June at Suncoast Casino this coming week. Thursday and Friday are between 5pm and 9pm, while the closing show on Saturday opens at 3pm and closes at 9pm . Book tickets at TicketPros.co.za 