ANC provincial chairperson Paul Mashatile implored leaders to listen to the people and that failure to do would lead to “more crises”. His remarks come after ANC leaders, including President Jacob Zuma, were booed and heckled and prevented from addressing May Day rallies across the country on Monday. Mashatile also took a veiled swipe at former AU Commission chairperson, Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, saying those who were openly campaigning to succeed Zuma in December despite a moratorium on succession race, were ill-disciplined. “It’s true that Gauteng has not yet decided who should lead the ANC come the elective conference. Our view is that it’s important that structures of the ANC must look at the calibre of leaders that must take us forward. Once that process is open, we will be able to pronounce We are trying to keep to the rules of the movement,” Mashatile said. When asked if it would not be a little too late by the time the ban on the succession race was lifted, he said: “The people who are already campaigning are obviously not following the discipline of the organisation and the leadership must call them to order, otherwise we will have no organisation if everybody does what they like.” Earlier this year, the ANC provincial structure called for a consultative conference to address challenges dogging the ruling party. “We need a forum for introspection in dealing with issues We don’t want to rush into early elections, there’s no need for an early elective conference at this instance,” Mashatile told The Star yesterday. He implored the congress movement leaders to start listening to people, saying failure to do so “will lead to more crises”. The booing of leaders during the May Day rallies was a “worrisome development that says something’s not right”, Mashatile added. “I would expect that the ANC and alliance leadership will be meeting to assess the situation and see what is it that we have to do to correct whatever is wrong. It’s quite clear there is something that the people are telling us that is not going right. We can’t close our eyes and think that everything is going well.” The Gauteng Human Settlements MEC said the events meant something was wrong in the country. However, the province, he said, had long accepted that there were challenges in the ruling party. “We have committed ourselves to those challenges, even within the alliance who have called for our president to step down. Certainly, if you don’t deal with the issues that people are raising, it will affect us and we have to be worried “We will spend a lot of time in Gauteng addressing the issues that people are raising, trying to listen to them and trying to respond positively. “We get the message, a lot is going to be done in the next few months to attend to the problems that are facing this movement and correct them,” said Mashatile. He pointed out that the ANC had “weakened” its role of being the leader of society, and needed to reclaim it. @luyolomkentane