The move came after the interim SABC board approved the funding proposal after a team from the department, National Treasury and SABC top management spent the past three weeks developing it. And it followed the news that the SABC, which has just R110million in its reserves, had recorded an operating loss of R509m as of the end of March. Although SABC interim board chairperson Khanyisile Kweyama informed the communications portfolio committee before midday that the proposal had been submitted a “couple of hours” earlier, Dlodlo claimed not to have received it when asked in Parliament last night. “We would be ostriches if we pretended we are not in dire circumstances at SABC. We have been engaging with the shareholders,” Kweyama said. “A process to source funding is under way. We have submitted a (funding proposal),” she told parliamentarians. Kweyama acknowledged the help received from the department and the ministry in developing the financial proposal. “A task team was established to work on a funding proposal that not only just asks for a guarantee or funds, but addresses the turnaround of the corporation. It is not sustainable to keep going back and asking for money every couple of years without dealing with the issues at the root cause of funding challenges at the SABC.” Asked in Parliament about the plan, Dlodlo said: “I have not received anything from them.” However, she confirmed that a team from the department, Treasury and the SABC had been working on a turnaround strategy for the corporation. She said Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba had indicated that they needed to look at “quite a number of issues” if they were to get assistance from banks or investors and even National Treasury. Kweyama was mum on the size of the financial injection they had requested, saying the minister should be given time to go through their proposal. Earlier, acting chief financial officer James Aguma told the committee that the SABC faced a financial crisis. “The SABC’s financial position has given rise to the need of a capital injection to stabilise the organisation,” he said. He also said the increase in the local content quota on SABC radio and television stations had resulted in loss of audiences and revenue. “The 90/10 music quotas had an impact of R29m on radio and R183m on television,” he said, adding that the money had yet to be audited. Revenue generated from television licence fees has been on a regressive trend for the past three financial years, he said. An additional problem was the ever-increasing costs of sports rights. An obligation to cover sport of national interest without funding from the fiscus had compounded the situation. Aguma also said the cost to deliver on local content had grown significantly “The total cost for news and current affairs over the past three financial years ranged from R647m to R745m.” Aguma revealed that the SABC had to fork out about “R39m each”
 for its coverage of the 2014 general election and 2016 municipal election. Unplanned events, such as funerals, cost the corporation about R37m a year. He complained about government’s 3% funding, which he said was “ring-fenced” for educational programme productions, among others, and amounted to R164m. “The SABC requires more than R4 billion to deliver on its mandate alone.” The public broadcaster’s funding is made up of 11% in television licence fees, 76% in advertising, 5% sponsorship and 3% government funding. Dlodlo said as part of a turnaround process at the SABC, there would be a moratorium on capital expenditure and leave encashments. “We decided to reduce the number of consultants at the SABC, and that strategies for collecting licence fees would be improved. “The collection is dismal, considering we have 150 staff responsible for this,” she said. According to Dlodlo, the turnaround strategy will also look at different funding models to ensure sustainability at the SABC. 