What was originally a protest about service delivery and better housing took a turn for the worse with many shops in the area burnt, looted and closed for business. Yesterday, most of the shops remained closed. A security guard from Engigyn Security Solutions told The Star that Tuesday night was war between staff and the residents, as they were completely overpowered by the crowd. He alleges live ammunition was used by the protesters. The Matlapeng Centre in Freedom Park was looted on Tuesday night. Yesterday, only one store was open for business, and several shops in the complex were still closed as staff members continued to clean their stores, fixing what they could. Itumeleng Ndala, a manager from The Hungry Lion, told The Star that the shop was looted and her employees had to take cover in surrounding shops. “I’m really worried about some of my employees, as some of them are not permanent and I don’t know if they’ll be paid or what. It’s a matter I will take to human resources.” Oupa* (not his real name), who owns a shop in the complex, told The Star: “I took out all my savings to invest in this shop. As it was being looted, I stood there because I could not do anything. The police were overpowered and couldn’t stop the angry mob.” All the schools in Eldorado Park were still closed yesterday. The Star visited one school in the area but was denied access. As protests have calm down in Eldorado Park, police managed to retrieve some items that were stolen. The Joburg metro police department, together with Eldorado Park police, managed to retrieve most of the furniture stolen this week. Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula warned criminals that the police were coming after them if they continued interfering with the Eldorado Park residents’ service delivery protests. According to Mbalula, the people of Eldorado Park were fighting for a legitimate cause, and criminals should stay away from these service delivery protests. He further urged parents to protect their children during these protests. “Our citizens must understand that they have all the right to raise their voices in an organised way,” the minister said at Eldorado Park police station. “Our (police’s) call is ‘let us respect the rule of law’, but I can assure those criminals in Eldorado Park and everywhere else that we are coming for them.”