The pair said the move from their seven-year Metro FM run to their new home was all about growth, challenge and expansion. “We knew we were ready for change and a bigger challenge. One of our ambitions (as a pair) is having more radio on-air time, because we want to grow that side of our offering,” said SPHEctacula, whose real name is Sphe Ngwenya. “Our focus in growth was really around radio presenting, and I think this platform and opportunity really spoke to that a lot more,” he added. The show will air weekdays from 3-6pm and the pair are confident that their show will take over afternoon radio. “The coolest thing about this opportunity is that we are going to be on a bilingual radio station with new listeners and the challenge of reaching them. “It is going to be the Kings of the Weekend amplified. We have more room to play now in a region that is growing and has unique dynamics.” According to the other king, DJ Naves, whose real name is Lebogang Naves, the move to hosting a radio show on weekdays does not put a damper on their brand Kings of the Weekends, but rather heightens it. “With all the changes, we’ve seen people ask on Twitter if this means that we are now ‘Kings of the Week’?” he said, giggling. “But what people must know is that the essence is that we are kings in our own right, no matter what it is that we do. We are kings who are trying to take over and dominate in any space that we play in,” he said. And to commemorate this big move, the DJs have also lined up the release of their new EP, the Kings Way Vol 1, on the same day. “As usual, our music is very versatile in terms of genre, so the album embodies that kind of work - from hip-hop to house songs. It will also be slightly different vibe wise from the 
EP 2 we will be dropping later in the year,” said SPHEctacula. Following this release, the pair will also release their second single, Crazy, featuring the likes of Nadia Nakai. It follows the success of their first single, Believe. The appointment of SPHEctacula and DJ Naves to Gagasi FM is in addition to the other ventures that they have undertaken, such as being owners of the premium clubbing venue Icon Soweto, in Pimville Square, and also club dj’ing. “There is no formula to how we get all this done, it is all about making time for all the things you want to do. “We really enjoy everything we are doing. The club brings us so much joy, the radio is an exciting new challenge, and therefore, we make time for everything. “This new role is to also get to the point where our influence and credibility can lead us to where we can have more impact and make a difference to our people,” says SPHEctacula. @AmandaMaliba