The City of Joburg yesterday managed to pass its R55,9 billion 2017/18 budget with the assistance of its coalition partners. The ANC voted against it. The mayor said this was a victory for the residents of Joburg – especially those who belong to the ranks of the forgotten people. “For the first time in Joburg’s history, a budget was passed under a coalition government. Ours is a coalition government bringing together a diversity of  views and solutions to the challenges experienced by our residents. Together, we are resolute in our commitment to bringing change to the residents of our city,” said city mayor Herman Mashaba. He thanked the coalition partners, the IFP, ACDP, UDM, COPE, VF+, and Al Jama-ah, for their unwavering support. “Together, with the support of the EFF, we were able to construct a budget that will bring change to the people of Joburg,” he said. He said the budget was a result of intensive and extensive public consultation which saw increased participation from communities, across all platforms. Over 8 000 residents participated in the process, as compared to the 3 000 last year. “This indicates our residents’ increased desire to constructively engage with government,” he said. The city held 31 official ward cluster conversations, which were led by members of the mayoral committee (MMC), and eight regional summits which I personally attended. These regional summits allowed for discussion to take place between the city and residents around the strategic direction of the city. In addition, the city also held four successful expert dialogues which allowed for the city to cement relationships with the private sector, he added. The city also received over 1 000 written submissions and 2 000 tweets which focused mostly on service delivery matters. Some of the key highlights in the budget include: · An allocation of R40 million to enhance sanitation in informal settlements, compared to the R17 million allocated last year; · An allocation of R162.7 million for the provision of additional electricity and water connections in informal settlements. This is an increased of R42,7 million as compared to the previous year; ·An allocation of R66 million toward progressively focusing on the site and service housing development approach; ·During the 2017/18 financial year, the city has set a target of constructing 2 000 rental accommodation units alongside developing 5 000 mixed housing development units for the poor; ·An allocation of R574 million in capital expenditure and R115 million in operational expenditure has been set aside for the upgrading of 10 informal settlements. This will be followed by the upgrade of 20 informal settlements in 2018/2019 and 21 informal settlements in 2019/2020; ·An allocation of R9.5 million for the provision of shelters for displaced people; ·An allocation of R118.6 million over the medium-term for the extension of operating hours of five more clinics; ·An allocation of R131 million towards increased Joburg Metro Police Department visibility on our streets, particularly in identified crime hotspots; An allocation of R16 million to expand the city’s SME hubs from seven to 14 hubs.  This expansion will increase the number of SMMEs supported through SME hubs per month to 1 250 by June 2018; and ·R5.2 billion has been set aside for the purpose of upgrading existing infrastructure, R3.3 billion has been allocated for the development of new infrastructure and R4.3 billion has also been allocated towards progressively addressing much-needed repairs and maintenance on our infrastructure system. “I have previously stated that the challenges which we have inherited are many and complex, and it will take time to fully address them. However, with the budget passed yesterday we can start to meet these challenges head on,” concluded Mashaba. @annacox