Johannesburg – Police have confirmed that 13-year-old Kitso Mothibe has been found alive at Park Station. Mothibe had been missing for three weeks which led to several raids being conducted in the Joburg CBD on Thursday in an effort to find her. This morning Gauteng police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said the search for the 13-year-old girl reported missing at the Johannesburg Central police station had been discontinued "after she was found by her cousin at Park Station yesterday afternoon". "At this stage it is unknown as to what was her state of health when she was found but it is believed that the social workers will deal with the matter. "Police had used all their available resources to search for her," he said. On Thursday Kitso’s family told The Star that they'd been trying since Tuesday to get the police to raid a dilapidated building in the Joburg CBD, which they said was where the child was being held. Her father Alec Mothibe alleged that police had turned a deaf ear to pleas for assistance in locating his daughter. Following major publicity of the situation Mayor Herman Mashaba together with police and the Joburg Metro Police Department raided a building where it was believed she was being kept. Despite raids conducted on several buildings in the area Kitso was not found. Dlamini said that the allegations made against police were part of an ongoing internal investigation "to establish the conduct of our members when dealing with the members of the community". The Provincial Commissioner of Gauteng Lieutenant General Deliwe De Lange is very concerned about the attitude of members who fails to abide by the police’s Code of Conduct. “Police members must render a responsible and effective service of a high quality which is accessible to every person”, she said. Dlamini said that police and other Law Enforcement Agencies in co-operation with the City of Johannesburg would continue with operations aimed at rooting out criminal elements in the inner city especially in the abandoned building claimed to be hiding places for criminals. "Any information received from the members of the community will be followed up without any delay," he emphasised "Police would like to thank all law-abiding members of the community who continue to co-operate with us in addressing the root causes of crime in order to create a safe and secure environment for all the people in South Africa," Dlamini concluded. @Lanc_02  ilanit.chernick@inl.co.za  The Star