During the mass funeral of the 16 pupils and a general worker from one of the schools on Saturday, Phaswana Madihlaba asked that something be done to urgently remove the ashes. “As Africans, we have beliefs, and we don’t think those ashes should be there. We know what happened there and it’s not nice to see those ashes every day.” Madihlaba thanked everyone for their support and donations and for the quick DNA results. He also requested that social workers continue supporting the families. His family lost three children in the accident. “It was the first time seeing the community of Verena working together like it did at this difficult time, and we really appreciate all that they and the government did for us,” Madihlaba added. He was speaking during the mass funeral of 16 of the 20 people lost in the accident. The remaining two were buried at their ancestral homes in Limpopo and KwaZulu-Natal yesterday, while the driver of the taxi was laid to rest last weekend. The burials followed two weeks of funeral arrangements, DNA tests and the collaboration of the Mpumalanga and Gauteng governments. The 16 pupils and the general worker were buried at various cemeteries: Verena, Kwaggafontein, Wolvenkop and Vlaklagte. It was a disheartening day in Verena as 17 coffins were lined up in a tent for families and friends, among other mourners, to bid farewell to their loved ones. Each coffin had a picture of the deceased. The bereaved family members sat close to the coffins. Some of the school pupils, relatives and other mourners had to be escorted outside the tent as emotions ran high. Others fainted, wept and wailed so loudly that Gauteng MEC for Education Panyaza Lesufi had to ask social workers and psychologists to assist with counselling outside the tent. All speakers who comforted the bereaved families said the loss was felt countrywide, but would pass and heal with time. National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete, who was among the mourners, said: “We are here to cry with you; your tears are our tears we are all here for you, for we too have lost our own people.” She said she was saddened that the pupils died at a difficult time in the country. “It is sad that these children died at a time where people who never protested before are protesting for President Jacob Zuma to fall. The ANC will continue to rule despite all the disruptions,” Mbete said. Gospel singers Rebecca Malope and Sipho Makhabane, as well as pupils from Refano Primary and Mahlenga Secondary schools, sang to comfort the mourners. Mahlenga pupils recited poems for their late schoolmates. Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga, Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane, Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza and Minister of Transport Joe Maswanganyi were among the many government officials who attended the funeral. On April 21, a taxi ferrying pupils home from the Refano and Mahlenga  schools crashed into a truck and burst into flames, claiming the lives of the 18 pupils as well as the driver and a general worker. It is believed that the driver miscalculated the speed of the truck and turned in front of it. Of the 18 pupils, 14 were from Refano and four from Mahlenga. Seven pupils survived the accident and four of them have been discharged from hospital. The South African National Taxi Council provided 120 taxis and 10 Putco buses to transport family members and residents during the funerals. The Road Accident Fund donated coffins, while Lesufi provided 10 cows on behalf of the Gauteng Department of Education.