Cosatu, through its provincial secretary Anele Gxoyiya, lodged the initial attack on Lucas, who was part of the provincial elective conference yesterday amid her controversial decision to purge former Northern MEC for Finance, Economic Development and Tourism Mac Jack and former MEC for Transport, Safety and Liaison Pauline Williams, for allegedly not supporting her campaign to become ANC chair after the provincial elective conference this weekend. Gxoyiya said her decision to reshuffle her cabinet was “unilateral and she failed to recognise the work of the provincial deployment committee consisting of the ANC and its alliance partners. “We have thrown the matter of her decision to unilateral reshuffle to conference to decide about her future. It is now up to her to know what is right for her to do or to resign as premier,” Gxoyiya said. He insisted that any removal of Lucas as ANC premier should be conducted through internal processes of the party, which include disciplinary process for allegedly bringing the party into disrepute or undermining a lawful party instruction. However, the ANC in the Northern Cape also has an option to bring a motion of no confidence against her but, for it to succeed, it must be supported by one or two opposition party members. As for Cosatu, a vote of no confidence was not an option. “We are not going to propose any motion of no confidence against her in the legislature. “We do not want to fight our battles with the opposition parties. We want the ANC to use its own internal processes. “We are aggrieved as much as they are also aggrieved. The premier does not qualify to be an ANC public representative,” Gxoyiya said after his address to conference. Yesterday, those in support of Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa appeared to be the majority of delegates, ahead of him delivering the keynote address today in Colesburg. The call gained more weight as the ANC in Luthuli House had also earlier condemned Lucas’s decision on Wednesday to reshuffle her cabinet without consulting the provincial ANC executive, where she serves as provincial treasurer. ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa, expressing the views of the ANC top brass, said they noted with “disbelief actions of the Northern Cape premier, Comrade Sylvia Lucas”, to reshuffle her cabinet without any consultation with the ANC. “We view this as a flagrant abuse of her office to further divide the ANC and undermine unity of the organisation. Her unbridled arrogance is a betrayal of trust with the 
ANC - the organisation that deployed her as premier,” Kodwa said. He reminded Lucas that the consultation was part of the 52nd ANC national conference resolution in Mangaung in December 2012, which said “consultation with the ANC structures on matters of deployment is a principle of the organisation and not a favour”. “Our deployees must desist from misusing their deployment to deepen divisions in the ANC,” Kodwa said. SACP Northern Cape spokesman Patrick Bosiame also corroborated the view that the reshuffling by Lucas was “unilateral and individualistic”.  He said they would hold an urgent meeting as Alliance partners after the provincial conference to discuss her future as premier. He pointed out that the premier was elected by the ANC and alliance partners and not by “the masses”. Pakes Dikgetsi, former senior ANC official and now Cope national chairman, agreed that Lucas’s reshuffling was factional. He described the decision to remove the two MECs from critical posts as Lucas’s, and her faction’s bid to control the “finances and tenders” issued by government. “It was a domestic fight over resources and finances of the province,” he said.