He said the ANC-run provincial government had already invested R30bn in infrastructure development between 2013 and last year, a move that unlocked 92000 direct jobs in the province. Makhura delivered the keynote address at the Gauteng Department of Human Settlements’ infrastructure funding summit in Midrand yesterday. He spoke in support of the department’s mega human settlements project, saying it would help alleviate the province’s housing backlog, standing at 600000 units. About 2million housing units had been delivered since the dawn of democracy in 1994, Makhura said. “It’s in human settlements we can change the way our province looks. The way we have delivered houses in the past cannot be sustained,” he said. Of the R30bn invested by the provincial government, R2bn generated additional economic activity and R6bn “went to government revenue. That’s the amount we got in return”. The premier added: “Of every rand invested in infrastructure, 92 cents went directly to stimulate other types of economic activity in the Gauteng province, while 91% of the money spent on infrastructure went to boost black businesses of different scale, such as township enterprises, women-owned business and youth-owned enterprises. "Infrastructure investment is a key driver in economic development for the previously disadvantaged.” Human Settlements MEC Paul Mashatile said the mega cities project would be driven through a public private partnership. “We have realised that if we want to achieve our objectives we require partnership between the public and private sectors, and co-operation between various spheres of government, in order to be able to build a globally competitive city region,” he said, explaining that the mega projects would include schools, health institutions, industrial zones and retail outlets, among other amenities. “There is money in this country. We need to use it for development (because) that money belongs to the people. We must be able to invest it in a smart way to drive the development of this province. As we invest in this critical infrastructure, we must create opportunities to stimulate local economic development,” Mashatile said. He revealed he had already had bilateral engagements with funding institutions, including the Public Investment Corporation. “Gauteng means business and we are going to do it,” said Mashatile, to loud applause. Through the mega projects, the government said it wanted to turn the province into a “permanent construction site”. Former Joburg mayor and now president of the United Cities and Local Governments, Parks Tau, said unemployment and poverty were some of the factors contributing to urbanisation, which in turn put enormous pressure on municipalities. Department of Human Settlements director-general Mbulelo Tshangana said urban centres also become repositories of knowledge and economic change. “It’s important to invest in major projects instead of having small, micro housing units all over the place,” he said, commending Makhura’s administration for these mega projects.