Group KwaZulu-Natal regional manager Evashnee Naidu said the ruling disregarded the March 17 Constitutional Court ruling affirming that the information of beneficiaries ought to be respected. “The judge didn’t take into consideration the impact of deductions on poor households. We are also upset that the judge didn’t see fit that Black Sash’s story ought to be heard,” she said. Naidu was speaking yesterday moments after the high court in Pretoria ruled against the order by the Department of Social Development and South Africa Social Security Agency (Sassa) to stop Net1 from allowing deductions from accounts of grant 
beneficiaries. Net1 is in charge of administering payments to social grants beneficiaries through its subsidiary company Cash Paymaster Services (CPS). The court also dismissed an application by Black Sash Trust to be part of the proceedings. The group supported a call by the department and Sassa to force CPS to stop deductions off the beneficiaries’ accounts. Net1 applied for “condonation” of the filing of a supplementary affidavit responding to new facts raised in the application by Black Sash. Naidu said the judgment meant that CPS would continue to deduct money for airtime, loans and electricity from the social grants beneficiaries unabated. “The judge ruled in favour of the interpretations of the Net1. We are discussing with our attorneys what Sassa plans are,” Naidu said. In his judgment, acting Judge CJ van der Westhuizen said: “The applications should not be granted because the issues raised in the application were not appropriate to the approach adopted in this judgment and particular in view of the relief sought.” Judge Van der Westhuizen said the case put forward by Sassa and the department hinged on its interpretation of new regulations 21 and 26A. These related to an interpretation as prohibiting all electronic debits, stop orders and electronic fund transfers from beneficiary accounts held at Grindrod, a subsidiary of Net1. “Sassa ordered CPS and Grindrod to stop all debit orders being processed off the beneficiary accounts with immediate effect from promulgation of the new regulation,” the judge said. Net1 had contested Sassa and the department’s interpretation and refused to stop deductions from the bank accounts of grant beneficiaries. “The practical implications of the first, second and third respondents’ interpretations of the said new regulations affect the operation of over 10 million beneficiary bank accounts that translate into a value of approximately R550 a month,” the judge said. He said “the applications to intervene and for admission as amici curiae” (friends of the court) by Black Sash could not succeed because it dealt with alleged constitutional issues, which were not strictly relevant in considering the interpretation of the provisions of Regulations 21 and 26A promulgated in May 2016. “A subsection clearly does not apply in respect of the debit orders entered against a bank account. A debit order is nothing more than an electronic form of payment effected upon an instruction by the bank account holder to his or her bank in favour of a third party,” the judge said. Sassa spokesman Kgomoco Diseko said: “It is a complex judgment and we are still studying it.”