This came out during Deputy Minister of Higher Education and Training Mduduzi Manana’s visit to the Central Methodist Mission in Joburg on Sunday. His visit was part of the monthly Education Sunday Career Expo, which was on its fourth leg. Manana said that acquiring additional skills would allow learners to adapt to the changing needs of industry, while creating sustainable livelihoods for themselves and their communities. “I urge you to refer to the 100 Occupations in High Demand resource when making a choice on what course
to register for in the post-school system. "This will assist you to make informed career choices to improve your chances of employability,” Manana said. During his talk, Manana emphasised the need for South Africa’s youth to focus on post-school skills acquisition through technical vocational education and training colleges, explaining that most career opportunities for the future were leaning towards skills produced within that sector. Manana said South Africa’s future growth prospects depended largely on skilled and entrepreneurial people. “Thousands of youths are recruited from abroad to fill the gap in skills that we currently do not have as a country. “This is why I am here today to encourage you to consider such skills so you can advance and be employable. “These skills will also equip you with entrepreneurship tools to start your own businesses and help create economic opportunities and jobs for others.” Manana took the opportunity to clarify that careers in vocational and technical skills did not entail that university education was less important. “The point being made is that we need to change the prevailing mindset that post-school only means university education. "We currently are faced with a challenge of having more students flocking to public universities, which are only 26 in number, while public colleges are double that number. "Most importantly, our economy requires that we produce more vocational skills,” Manana said. He further urged the youth to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the National Student Financial Aid Scheme, adding that to date the organisation had more than 2 million beneficiaries. Manana said the same should go for the 21 sector education and training authorities, responsible for learners who cannot pursue further education and training. He also gave learners and congregants details of the Apply Now Campaign and the Khetha Career Guidance Campaign, which run from March to September across the country to assist young people make informed choices and to register early with tertiary institutions. The campaigns also seek to inform learners about things to look out for when choosing institutions of higher learning and how to avoid falling prey to unregistered and bogus colleges that offer unaccredited qualifications. Meanwhile, one of the leaders of the Mission, Reverend Richard Ncombo, hailed Manana for his efforts to take services closer to the people. He described the event as crucial to equipping young people with the tools to make positive decisions about their future. “It was also a platform to encourage private sector companies to offer internships and experiential learning programmes to young people,” he said.