His advocate had to explain to him afterwards why he had been found guilty of culpable homicide. Little Tebetso Phahle was beaten to death by William Tjiane when he was left in his care by his mother when she went for a job interview. Tjiane denied touching the child, but Pretoria High Court Judge Neil Tuchten rejected his evidence. The judge said only Tjiane knew what happened on the morning of August 3, 2010. According to medical experts, the child suffered three blows to his head, including a severe brain injury, as well as severe bruises across his buttocks. The mother said that when she left her child in Tjiane's care that morning, he was a happy little boy. However, the killer fell asleep, and when he awoke, the child had soiled himself. Tjiane said he placed the child in a bucket with water and went outside to fetch more water. He claimed he heard a cry from inside the house, and when he returned, the child had fallen out of the bucket. He told the court he only saw a slight bump on the child’s forehead and proceeded to dress him for crèche after washing him. But the boy struggled to breathe and Tjiane realised something was wrong. He placed the child on the bed and went to get help from a friend. The boy remained on the bed for several hours without Tjiane checking on him or obtaining medical help. He claimed he did not know what to do and waited for the child’s mother to return. Elizabeth Phahle said when she got to the room, she found her son naked on the bed. He could not move and his only, and last words, to her were “mommy, mommy”. She took the child to hospital. Judge Tuchten said the only inference was that the child wanted to go to the toilet that morning but could not get to the outside toilet as the door was locked and Tjiane was asleep. The boy soiled himself and Tjiane, in a fit of anger, hit him. It appeared some of the marks on the boy were caused by the sole of his shoe. Tjiane did not want to obtain medical help as he was afraid he would be in trouble, the judge said. In convicting him, Judge Tuchten explained culpable homicide was the negligent killing of a human. Tjiane was expected to be sentenced today.