The house, which the DJ affectionately refers to as the "Raj Mahaal", even has surround sound in the bathroom, and he admits to singing along to his favourite tunes while in the shower. It is this commitment to his craft, together with his incessant creativity and longevity in the industry, which earned him the top radio spot at one of the biggest stations in the country. Following a recent reshuffle at the SABC, Goode took over 5FM’s morning show, which is prime time in the radio world. The radio and club DJ is no stranger to the industry and has earned himself quite a reputation as a musical encyclopedia with a wicked sense of humour, which he admits has landed him in hot water several times. “I’m not afraid to scold controversial callers and I expect them to do the same to me if they don’t like what I’m saying,” he insists. After decades behind the mic and setting dance floors alight around the world, Goode says he has matured and, with experience, he is determined to provide more sensitive content. He admits that when he was younger, he wouldn’t have put in as much effort to ensure that what is said on the show is appropriate for the entire family to enjoy. “At the back of my mind I’m thinking, what if children are sitting in the car and they hear something nasty? I don’t want the parents not to listen to us (because of that).” The DJ adds that although this adjustment might be challenging, it's something he wants to improve. “Some people might think this is a cop-out, but I think it's a gentlemanly, grown-up thing to do. One day when I have children, I’d like them to have pleasant thoughts.” But Goode’s new and improved content has also invited a diverse audience who take part in the show. “We have lots of personalised songs and jingles on the show and we now have parents taking videos of their kids singing along while they're getting ready for school,” he says. “When you watch this stuff it’s so sweet and heart-warming.” Despite taking into account people from all walks of life, Goode says his wit will still feature and that he will continue to go to extraordinary lengths to entertain the listeners. He explains that this might mean touching on controversial topics later in the morning, when children are at school. “I want someone to call in and start screaming at me and tell me I'm an a*****e so I can have a conversation with them about it - we encourage the drama,” he says. Goode adds that he doesn’t mind being the butt of the joke and that there are no aspects of his personal life that are off limits to speak about on the show. “Everyone’s fair game. If I mess up on the show and everyone starts laughing at me, that’s cool.” Goode is passionate about music and has been spending a large part of his adult life playing for people in exotic destinations around the world. His love for music landed him a weekend slot on the popular radio station, and he was the brainchild behind The Saturday Surgery, an acclaimed dance music show on 5FM. Goode is sentimental about this time in his career and admits that he has kept a record of it all. “I’ve got a copy of every show we did and every DJ mix digitised,” he boasts. But with the rise of technology, Goode says a radio show has to be more than just the music. “There’s nothing I can offer you musically that you can’t get on your own,” he points out. But Goode is ready for the challenge as he thrives on creativity. This is evident in his home, which is decorated in Star Wars, Super Mario and Matrix movie mementoes. “I suppose my motivation is that radio DJs are competing with so much that there’s no choice but to figure out a way to be innovative.” He is also very instrumental behind the broadcasting scenes and does extensive work with radio imaging and audio production, which benefits his own radio show. Ultimately, Goode wants to use the power of broadcasting and music in order to unite people. “Radio can give you a friendship with somebody. You might not physically be in the room with the listeners, but you can form a bond and start to care about them.” @Karishma_Dipa