Yesterday, Lesufi addressed the learners at the school and encouraged them not to be afraid of reporting any type of sexual harassment or abuse. “Sexual harassment is a very serious matter which needs to activate the full might of the law,” the MEC said. Lesufi voiced his displeasure about the matter not being reported properly. “When a learner is sexually abused, you don’t just say I’ve reported the matter to the police or send an email to the department, and that’s it. “It must go to the provincial level - we needed to gather evidence, inform the parents, support the learners, deal with it appropriately and do everything to protect the learners,” he emphasised. The MEC said he’d come to address the learners just prior to exams to make it clear that they have the Department of Education’s full support. “We are here to protect you and protect you appropriately, and provide support so that we don’t find ourselves in a similar situation again,” he said. “Our country is at war with itself - our women are being attacked. Let’s refrain from gender-based crime. “Let us adhere to human rights and put an end to this cycle,” he told the boys, who applauded loudly. “To educators, we’re in this together. Respect and discipline must be maintained and we must protect the well-being of our boys. “Anything that falls outside the ethos of the Bill of Rights must be reported,” he said. Lesufi added that there would be a meeting for the leadership of all boys’ schools in Gauteng in two weeks’ time to address these issues. “No one should ever be hurt on a school’s premises,” he said. Lesufi said “the culture of boys not complaining” or being seen as weak if they do “must be put in the past”. “We have to nip it in the bud before it gets out of hand, we can’t wait for another exposé,” the MEC said. He also made it clear that it’s not just boys’ schools that fall victim to such incidents and stereotypes, and emphasised that girls’ schools face similar challenges. “I have full confidence in this school - it’s one of our best schools in the province,” he added. In November last year, a 22-year-old water polo coach and boarding master at Parktown Boys’ High was accused of sexually assaulting at least 20 male pupils and raping one learner after he was caught fondling a 15-year-old boy on CCTV cameras. The accused is out on bail of R3000 pending investigations. @Lanc_02