DJs Euphonik, pictured, Black Coffee and Culoe De Song are just some of the stars who are set to light up European dance floors during the northern hemisphere’s summer. Euphonik, whose real name is Themba Nkosi, has announced that he is heading to Ibiza, where party animals are known to flock to. This comes just after the Mpumalanga- born DJ and producer concluded a successful annual trip to Miami, Florida, in March, where he rubbed shoulders with celebrities. These included US rapper Ty Dolla Sign, Paris Hilton and P. Diddy. Now, he is playing at the prestigious International Music Summit (IMS) in Spain, which started yesterday and ends tomorrow. The musical spectacle is referred to as the spiritual home of dance music and is establishing itself as one of the most important events in the contemporary electronic music scene. Euphonik is thrilled about participating in the summit and said he would explore alternative ways to promote and elevate South African music to the world. He also plans to further entrench his brand and style of music to the global market. “There’s a huge buzz around South Africa at the moment and it’s exciting that, finally, our country and our sound is getting the type of recognition it deserves,” he said. “I’m super excited to be one of the people who have been instrumental in taking our sound to the world over the past few years, and one of my aims is to kick down doors and barriers for acts and musicians coming after us. That will be my legacy.” And one of South Africa’s biggest stars, DJ Black Coffee, is also set to take Europe by storm. He posted his tour dates on Instagram for the rest of the month as well as for June. It begins with a performance at the Gotham Beach in France, while he will spend the weekend playing in Monaco and France. The DJ, whose real name is Nkosinathi Maphumulo, will then travel to Ibiza, Amsterdam and Berlin. This week, he was seen on Instagram spending time with his family and pets before he jets off. Fellow DJ Culoe De Song, who has taken his music worldwide, will also spend some time in Ibiza. He spent the past few weeks performing in India, Indonesia and Japan.