In observing World Hunger Day, the South African Food Sovereignty Campaign said 53% of the country had no food, and much work would have to be done to meet the 17 Sustainable Development Goals focus of a world of “no hunger”. World Hunger Day is one of the ways to highlight the plight of the hungry. And while the figures of South Africa’s hungry went down between 2013 and last year, the drought of the past couple of years dealt a shocking blow. “More than 2.7million households were affected by the drought,” the World Food Programme (WFP) said last year. It said South Africa, as the regional breadbasket, had experienced its driest year on record in 2015, threatening the key maize crop and pushing spot prices for the grain 100% higher over the past year. For the region as a whole, WFP said many areas had recorded their lowest rainfall in 35 years between October 2015 and January 2016, the main planting window for grains such as the staple maize crop in the southern hemisphere winter. “Limited water availability and poor pasture worsened livestock conditions,” WFP said, adding that this affected women, children and other extremely vulnerable badly. Almost 15% of school-goers went hungry every day, Stats SA found in its General Household Survey last year. The UN Children’s Fund (Unicef) said 15% of children in Gauteng were hungry every day, while 12% stood the risk of going to bed without a meal. According to Unicef, 33% of children living in the poorest homes experienced hunger. With women and children bearing the brunt of social ills, 27% of children in female-headed households experienced hunger compared to the 7% from male-headed households. Unicef last year said hunger still killed more people every year than HIV/Aids, malaria and tuberculosis combined. Hunger killed at least 64% of South Africa’s children under the age of five and one in five children were stunted and many were deficient in the vitamins and minerals vital to good health and development. Unicef last week called for an investment in ending child hunger and malnutrition. “Good nutrition is essential for the proper development of children,” said Stop Hunger Now chief executive Saira Khan. Stop Hunger Now is a volunteer-based meal packaging and nutrition programme, which has distributed 12million meals to 55737 beneficiaries since 2011. Efforts by the government to intervene include the Department of Basic Education’s School Nutrition Programme, which provides daily meals to millions of schoolchildren. Other organisations include FoodFoward SA, which collects edible surplus food from manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers and redistributes it to non-profit organisations that feed thousands of hungry people every day. Last year, they were able to make 14.5million meals that fed 250 000 people.