Red or white? Dark, bold and dramatic or light, bright and airy? If you love wine but aren’t really sure which type suits your personality, you could look to your personal style for the answer. That’s right, the clothes you wear might point to more than just your taste in fashion and actually reveal your taste in wine. Check out your favourite fashion trend to find out which wine fits you (like a glove!): Indie rocker Grunge, the iconic 1990s fashion style is back! Check pattern plaid shirts, usually in red and black, characterise the 2017 revival, although distressed denims, leather, combat boots and Dr. Martens still typify this style, renowned for its edginess. A sultry pairing is a full-bodied Hermanuspietersfontein Shiraz blend (Shiraz, Mourvedre, Grenache and Viognier). The surprise aromas of spice, black olive and chocolate make this wine, much like grunge, one of the sexiest ensembles around right now. Wear your art on your sleeve Over-the-top, in your face outrageousness; avant-garde pairs anything from satin and leather to chunky biker boots and velvet, which is a big trend this year. Whatever you wear, as long as it’s got that velvet touch, it’ll scream, ‘I’ve arrived!’ And no doubt with a glass of bubbly in your hand, for a dry Christine-Marie Méthode Cap Classique from Niel Joubert is the perfect accompaniment to this eccentric style. It features a refreshing burst of mousse with yeast, apples and pears on the nose with underlying tropical tones. Dressed for success If you mean business in the office and at home, and blur the lines between the two with confident but relaxed corporate wear, you’re the power dresser. This style is modest, elegant and sophisticated, making it the perfect match for a fresh and fruity Delheim Wild Ferment Chenin Blanc 2015. This wine is a refined example of Chenin Blanc, featuring aromas of honey, straw and lemon blossom. The power dresser style is clean, formal and uncluttered, much like this cultivar. Radically retro Anything from the 1980s and earlier counts as vintage these days, and the current fav is the bright and bold 80s. If shiny metallics, neon colours, puffy sleeves and yes, shoulder pads, are your thing, you’re a certified vintage fan. A rich, red blend from an estate older than 200 years is as vintage as they come. You’re sure to enjoy the dark plums with savoury spice and meaty notes of the 1682 Blaauwklippen Wine Estate’s fabulous Cabriolet 2014. Because vintage fashion is like wine; it gets better with time. Lady of leisure If you’re on the go all the time, not just on the treadmill at the gym, and love the comfort and convenience of activewear, you’re definitely part of the athleisure wear trend. A key characteristic of these fashionistas? They do lunch. Really well. Most often with a bottle of the ultimate lunchtime wine – a Chardonnay. A great option is a Fat Bastard Chardonnay, which boasts a rich, golden colour and complex aromas of vanilla and honeysuckle layered with subtle nuances of oak. No matter your preferred style, it’s time to put your best foot forward and head on over to Winederland at the TOPS at SPAR Wine Show. The Wine Show is Thursday the 8th June to Saturday 10th June at Suncoast Casino this coming week. Thursday and Friday are between 5pm and 9pm, while the closing show on Saturday opens at 3pm and closes at 9pm . Not only will you have the opportunity to flex that fashion muscle, but find your perfect wine match too! For more information go to www.wineshow.co.za Enter here to stand a chance to win tickets for you and your partner to join us at The TOPS at Spar Wine Show!   