According to air force pilot Major Omphile Mutloane, the formations he performed with five other members of the air force took about two months of practice. “We practised for about two months, depending on the availability of the planes, people on leave and the weather. So we had to take all of that into consideration. So we probably trained longer than the civilian teams did due to those reasons,” Mutloane said. The air show took place on Saturday at the Swartkops Air Force Base in Valhalla. Mutloane was one of five pilots in the team, which is known as the Silver Falcons, which he said began in 1967. “The team started in 1967 and they started the formations we do, which have evolved over the years,” he explained. The other team members include Major Mark Gentles, the captain; Major James Wilcox; Major Sibu Tangana; and Major Wendy Badenhorst, the newest addition to the team. The 32-year-old Mutloane said the formations were hardly ever tampered with due to their complex nature. “The formations are too complex to play around with, and for safety’s sake, we stick to the original formations as much as we can,” he said. In a stunning display, Mutloane and his team members wowed the thousands of spectators. One of the more impressive formations was when Mutloane, from the left, flew his aircraft very closely between the other four aircraft, coming straight for him from the right. This is one of the manoeuvres which earned him superstar status at the air show. During the final air show 
display, Mutloane and the rest of the Silver Falcons stopped their aircraft, PC7MkII planes, on the tarmac and got out to greet the crowd, much to the delight of the aviation enthusiasts in attendance. When not performing with the rest of his team, Mutloane spends his days teaching students to fly and become air force pilots. He said he had always wanted to be a pilot when growing up and now it thrills him to be able to help other aspiring pilots reach their dreams. He urged anyone who wanted to become a pilot to join the air force. “I would advise anyone who wants to become a pilot to just go for it. It’s more than possible to do it,” he said. Other air force aircraft on display were Denel Oryx, Agusta A109 LUH, SAAB JAS39 Gripen, Patchen Explorer, and Alouette II and III. Civilian aircraft included the Cheetah, Impala, AN2, Extra 300, Flying Lions Harvard Display Team, Torre Pitts Special Display Team and Good Year Pitts Special Display Team. This year’s theme was Pioneering Our Future, and Captain Ntokozo Ntshangase, spokesperson for the South African Air Force, said the hope was to create aviation awareness for the public and also for aviation students.