Judge Siraj Desai gave Van Breda permission to sit as far back as possible so he could avoid seeing photographs of the brutal injuries inflicted on his family in the early hours of January 27, 2015 at their luxury home in Stellenbosch. The 22-year-old Van Breda stands accused of bludgeoning to death his father Martin, mother Teresa and brother Rudi, as well as the attempted murder of his sister Marli, who survived. Forensic pathologist Dr Daphne Anthony yesterday detailed the severe head injuries that caused their deaths. She testified that Rudi, Henri’s older brother, had evidence of blood in his stomach, and this indicated that he had not died immediately as he had swallowed blood. There was also evidence of “external sharp and blunt force trauma on his hand”. A little finger had defensive wounds and the nail was loose, indicating he had tried to ward off his attacker. Judge Desai asked if Rudi would have felt pain, and Anthony said he would have and would have been semi-conscious. She said he also had a “so-called chop wound”. “This wound has features of sharp and blunt-force trauma. It’s normally caused by a heavy or bulky object with a sharp edge. It’s wielded on the body with a tremendous amount of force and often at high speed.” Loose bone fragments could be seen with her naked eye, as well as underlying brain tissue, Anthony testified. Some of Rudi’s wounds were located on the left side of his neck and temple, and the left and central upper part of his scalp. “The brain showed evidence of deep laceration,” while he had “severe skull fractures which caused damage to the brain itself”. Anthony held the axe, believed to be the murder weapon, and said the attacker would have had to be strong to handle it. Van Breda’s father, Martin, also died from severe head injuries. In his case, however, Anthony said he had no defensive wounds, which indicated that his attacker had surprised him. There was blood in both of Martin’s lungs, which indicated he, too, did not die immediately. “He had chop wounds on the back of his head, also on the right and left at the back of the head. Infliction of the trauma was most likely from behind.” Van Breda’s mother, Teresa, also showed evidence of “sharp and blunt-force trauma” involving the head. Anthony said she had a defensive wound on her hand and must have tried to protect herself from the attack. She also had small abrasions on the bridge of her nose, possibly from falling forward. She, too, had chop wounds, extensive loss of blood, skull fractures and brain injuries. “Several loose skull fragments were present and could be seen with the naked eye. Brain tissue damage could also be seen with the naked eye.” Anthony said she believed Teresa was facing her attacker. She had no evidence of blood in her lungs or stomach, which indicated that she died “fairly quickly”. The trial continues. ANA