A one-year-old baby boy was left outside the Resthaven New Life Centre in Rosettenville on Thursday. A staff member of the NGO found the baby lying on the pavement around 6am. The centre was forced to hand the baby over to the police and welfare workers because it does not have the required certification and documentation from the Department of Social Development allowing it to care for infants. The centre has a baby sanctuary, which is not operational. They have been battling to get registration for more than a year. Resthaven Ministries spokesperson Steve Rudd said they had the capacity to provide for at least 25 babies. But they would need certification from the Department of Social Services. “Around 6am on Thursday, one of the staff found a baby abandoned in front of the New Life Centre. “We immediately brought the child into the centre, but we don’t have the capacity to keep the baby, so we called the police,” he said. “Because we were unable to keep the baby here, we called other organisations in the area to find out if they could assist. “Luckily, Childline was of great help,” said Rudd. “The centre has the capacity to take care of abandoned babies where we have been approved by the Health Department and the fire department, but Social Services is delaying the process to register the centre,” he lamented. “I don’t know what the hold-up is. We have been waiting for their certification for a long time more than a year, ” Rudd added. Moffatview police spokesperson Constable Phumi Kraai confirmed that no docket or case had been opened at the police station regarding a missing boy. According to Rudd, the child is being cared for at a place of safety in South Hills. He said this was not the first time a child had been left at the doorstep of their shelter. Child Protection Week, which seeks to raise awareness and educate society about the rights and responsibilities of children, runs until Friday. Home Affairs Minister Professor Hlengiwe Mkhize has said the government would focus its efforts on strengthening family programmes. “This would ensure that children, the most vulnerable group in society, are protected. “During Child Protection Week we all have to make new commitments and see how we can improve the well-being of children and strengthen children’s resilience by also looking at family programmes. “These are important for child protection because when families are not strengthened, it becomes a breeding ground for child neglect and all forms of violence that children can get exposed to, including the most heinous of crimes, that of child murder,” she said. The Department of Social Development had not responded to enquiries regarding the centre’s certification at the time of publication. @Zwane_2li2ls