It most recently walked away with The Star’s annual Readers’ Choice Award, along with a TripAdvisor Travellers’ Choice Award. Known as the “entertainment mecca”, it took first place in the “Best Local Tourist Attraction” category in The Star’s annual Readers’ Choice supplement and first place for the “Top 25 hotels for families for the Africa and South Africa category in the TripAdvisor Travellers’ Choice Awards. Located just 8km from Joburg’s city centre, Gold Reef City is as accessible as it is unique in its appeal. It’s a favourite among thrill-seekers, entertainment junkies and keen adventurers alike for its daring theme park, exciting events, great restaurants, theatre productions and fun recreation for all. Gold Reef City is a significant contributor to the City of Gold’s tourism industry, offering local and international visitors a world-class, African experience like no other. “What makes Gold Reef City a firm favourite among South Africans and international guests alike is the unique way in which we have managed to maintain and preserve the charm and nostalgia of an old mining town, while offering our guests unprecedented entertainment and every other world-class amenity that they could think of,” explained Gareth Kaschula, Gold Reef City’s marketing manager. He said that the fact that Gold Reef City was voted as the Best Local Tourist Attraction for the third time in a row reaffirmed its position as one of South Africa’s  tourist treasures. “We feel truly honoured to feature in the Readers’ Choice supplement once again, and we want to thank every single person who voted for us,” Kaschula added. For the last 14 years, 
Trip-Advisor has highlighted the world’s top places based on the millions of reviews 
and opinions collected in a single year from travellers around the globe. This encompasses 6.2 million businesses and properties in more than 128 000 destinations. According to Barbara Messing, chief marketing officer for TripAdvisor, winners were identified in the categories of Top Hotels, Bargain, B&Bs and Inns, Luxury, Service and Small Hotels. “We congratulate the properties that have won Travellers’ Choice hotel awards. “As travellers consider where to book their next trip, they should be sure to check out our latest award winners who have delighted millions of members of the TripAdvisor community,” she said. At the end of 2015, Gold Reef City relaunched following a multimillion-rand refurbishment by Tsogo Sun. Apart from giving visitors access to a world-class theme park and casino, Gold Reef City also boasts excellent conferencing facilities, the Apartheid Museum, an opulent theatre, movies, tenpin bowling, a games arcade and a diverse selection of restaurants.