This will be followed by a public memorial service at the Verena Open Ground on Thursday. The announcement was made by Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi, who was speaking at the funeral service of Amos Mnguni, 75, who drove the taxi ferrying children in Wolvenkop, Ekangala, two weeks ago. It crashed into the side of a truck and burst into flames. Mnguni died along with one other adult and 18 children when the taxi burnt. At his funeral at the weekend, Lesufi said: “We are hopeful that, by the end of this week, we would have made some progress in identifying the deceased so they can go to their last resting place.” Lesufi pleaded with mourners at Mnguni’s funeral to desist from pointing fingers and to show 
support. “This is the beginning of an extremely long and mournful period. “We have buried one and still have 19 to go. “We need to summon up all the courage and steer clear of the blame game,” said Lesufi. Echoing his sentiments was the brother of the deceased, Joel Mnguni, who said their family needed support rather than the “Mnguni” surname being tarnished and dragged through the mud. “My brother is not a murderer and he loved those kids dearly,” he said. “We, too, have lost a loved one, and instead of being divided we must work together in helping each other through the pain,” he added. This comes against the backdrop of police reports that Mnguni may have miscalculated speed and distance and tried to beat an oncoming truck to a turn-off. Mourners turned out in their numbers, braving the early morning cold to say their last goodbyes to Mnguni and watching somberly as his coffin left his home. A delegation from the Gauteng provincial government was in attendance, as were friends, family and members of the Traditional Healers Organisation, who shared memories of Mnguni, who was also a traditional healer. His 58-year-old daughter Martha Mnguni said it was heartbreaking that her father, who was the sole breadwinner, had to die in such a horrific manner. “We are still shocked. “We really do not know what to say,” she said. Mnguni’s taxi was transporting the pupils of two schools when he smashed into a truck as he took them home. The schoolchildren were travelling from Refano Primary School and Mahlenga Secondary School to Wolvenkop and Verena when tragedy struck. The remains of the children were burnt so badly that identifying them was impossible. DNA testing processes are currently being carried out. A funeral committee was established by the government to assist bereaved families and work with them to arrange memorial services and funerals. At the weekend, Lesufi said there would be two memorial services this week. Funeral details had not yet been made available.