Families, relatives and community members gathered at the ground soon after they had collected the death certificates of the 18 children who died in the taxi taking them home two weeks ago. The minibus burst into flames after hitting the side of a truck. They gathered at the field to pay tribute to the fallen children, clutching pictures of all 18 and the two adults who died, evoking emotions as these were displayed on the stage. This was the last memorial service to be held for the children. Paramedics and the police said evidence showed the taxi has sped up to beat the truck to an intersection, miscalculating the distance and hitting the side of the bigger vehicle with great force. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi rushed to the scene as soon as the news reached him, and together with officials from the Mpumalanga government, has frequently visited the families, assuring them of support. At the funeral of the taxi driver, Amos Mnguni, on Saturday, his family and Lesufi pleaded with community members that the blame not be heaped on him, as no one knew the exact details of the accident. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga attended the second memorial service yesterday, and told the families their loss was the loss of the whole country. She said: “I may not fully understand the pain that you are going through, but I have come to know that, with time, all will be well.” She reiterated the promise made by Lesufi, to immediately bring scholar transport to the affected communities to relieve them of transport fees, saying the programme had been introduced in 2015 but had somehow missed that community. “The problem was that we did not monitor the programme carefully," she said, making an undertaking that all programmes would be closely monitored to ensure they benefited all who needed them. Motshekga wished the surviving pupils a speedy recovery, especially the three who remained in hospital. Mpumalanga MEC for Community Safety, Security and Liaison Pat Ngomane said that, as the provincial government, they were deeply upset. “It is sad that whenever these accidents occur, they take away young people. “We were looking forward to them becoming future leaders,” he said. "The nation has lost future leaders, police officers and doctors, and they will forever be remembered.” The mass funeral for 16 of the deceased pupils from Refano Primary and Mahlenga Secondary schools, and a general worker, will be held tomorrow morning at Wolvenkop. Another pupil will be buried in KwaZulu-Natal and the last in Limpopo. Ngomane will lead the funeral delegation in KZN, while Lesufi will lead the delegation in Limpopo, both on Sunday.