He struggled through depression and drugs to finally realise his dream of being a world-class DJ. When the City Rains hitmaker started out, his first taste of music was as a rapper. It was in high school when he taught himself to make beats and produce music. “I discovered DJing later and found comfort in the fact that I could produce songs and perform as a DJ, and that’s where I decided to stay,” he said. By matric, he was producing House songs and then started DJing in university. “I thought to myself that this is what I wanted to pursue,” he said. He studied IT and then went on to do sound engineering. “It wasn’t easy. It has been a long journey to make a career and a living out of it.” His first EP was released in 2007 on vinyl. In 2008, he released his first album, which was a flop. “I learnt the ins and outs of the industry and what it takes to really make it. The main thing I learnt is that marketing is so important. Then I went on to study music marketing management. “So I went on a path to learn all the things that are required to really make it,” he said. Dixon is now an award-winning DJ. He recently released the third single off his Live the Music album, which was released last year. “The song is called Ezizweni. Berita and I have been planning to do a song together since 2012, when she had her hit song Thandolwethu, but we kept saying we will do it when the time is right,” he said. His first two releases from the album Trigger, featuring Inga Hina and Mixed Up Chick featuring Monique Bingham, have done very well. Trigger is nominated for song of the year at this year’s Samas. The album has already won a Metro FM award for best urban dance album and is also nominated for the Samas. After 10 years in the industry, Dixon wanted to make sure people understood his journey. “I’m putting together a documentary about my experiences of how I got to where I am. A lot of people only know me from my Tribal Soul album, but there is quite a lot of history before that, and I’ve worked with a lot of people in the industry.” Dixon wants to tell his story so that people can be aware that he isn’t an overnight success. “I want them to know that hard work is so important in pursuing anything in life. If it took me seven years to get my first break, then they shouldn’t be discouraged after two or three years and things aren’t working out.” After cleaning up and getting sober, Dixon was able to see a brighter future for himself with the help of his family and father, who urged him to go back into music. Right now the DJ is working on releasing a remix with Nigerian stars Davido and Tinashe. Another remix with American musician Maxwell is also in the works. He said his depression and drug dependency hindered the progress of his professional life and he wanted to use that experience to teach others. “Maybe if I didn’t make those mistakes I would be much further, but that experience made me a stronger person.” @mane_mpi