But these drastic measures may not be necessary, with Basic Education spokesman Elijah Mhlanga saying they expect schooling to restart on Monday following President Jacob Zuma’s intervention. Schooling in Vuwani has been disrupted and 27 000 pupils from 76 schools have not been able to attend classes because of ongoing fighting over municipal boundaries. Zuma held a meeting with Venda king Toni Mphephu Ramabulana and other local traditional leaders in a bid to bring an end the nearly three-month impasse. The new Lim 345 municipality is a merger of Vuwani, Hlanganani and Malamulele areas. It is expected to be renamed Collins Chabane Municipality after the late former minister of Public Services and Administration, Collins Chabane, who was from the region. He died in a car accident in 2015. The Vuwani community shut down schools  last year, burning and vandalising about 30. When they finally reopened, pupils were accommodated in mobile classrooms. During the recent protests, residents have been preventing teachers and pupils from accessing schools. The provincial government has also said mobile clinics have not been able to access some communities. The protests turned deadly when two people were killed in a car accident last month, caused by a barricade placed on a main road during a protest. Cosas secretary Khulekani Skosana who took the Learn Without Fear campaign to the area last month, said they were willing to do everything to ensure education continue in Vuwani. Skosana said: “We are willing to bus in our members in large numbers to protect the schools and make sure learning continues. Communities should not use schools as bargaining chips. Communities need to know education can be used to foster positive change.” However, Mhlanga yesterday said schooling was expected to resume on Monday. “All indications show learners will return to school. The president had a meeting with traditional leaders and agreed the shutdown will end. They are intending to announce the end to the shutdown this weekend.” Mhlanga said unlike last year, Grade 12 pupils would not be moved to secret catch-up camps, and "learners will be able to catch-up on the work they have missed out on during class time”. Zuma met with Ramabulana and members of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Tuesday to try to end the stand-off. Yesterday, Zuma’s spokesman, Dr Bongani Ngqulunga said: “The leaders raised concern about the deteriorating situation in Vuwani and emphasised urgent steps needed to be taken to normalise the situation. "The president and the king appealed to parents to enable learners to return to school while the challenges raised by the community are being addressed." Limpopo provincial government spokesperson Phuti Seloba said there was hope the protests would come to an end. Ramabulana’s spokesman Jackson Mafunzwaini was tight-lipped about the meeting with the president. “The provincial government did their best to solve the matter but it was important for the king and president to look back at their conversations from last year.”