Monday saw Eldorado Park go to war as clashes between protesters and police escalated throughout the night. Residents said they were sick and tired of no housing, no jobs and poor service delivery. They complained of a spiking crime rate, lack of job availability and an inability to feed their children. Yesterday and the day before, tyres were burnt, rubber bullets and teargas were fired, and glass and rocks littered the area, with neither side backing down. Police tried to calm the situation throughout Monday night. Yesterday, protesters continued their action, with Extensions 7, 8 and 9 described by the police as no-go areas. According to Soweto East police spokesperson Captain Hitler Ngwenya, the BP garage was completely looted and shut down yesterday. Petrol was taken from the garage, while the Spar Tops bottlestore nearby was also looted. Ngwenya said the police were working hard to contain the situation and had been working since Monday morning, closing many roads into the area. “We have many police units present at the area.” He said police had arrested 12 people for looting and one person for public violence. A resident of Eldorado Park told The Star the protesters would not sleep. They planned to loot every shop owned by Pakistanis and were also going to use petrol bombs. The station commander at Eldorado Park police station, Brigadier Ian van Dyk warned residents to remain in their homes until further notice. Following the violence  in Eldorado Park, another protest arose in Ennerdale, where residents were also fighting for better service delivery, housing and jobs. The protest started yesterday morning with police firing rubber bullets and stun grenades at residents who were throwing stones. However, while some shops were looted,  the situation was quickly brought under control. Velarie Moses from the Ennerdale Stakeholders Association told The Star the organisation had been in talks with the Department of Housing for about four years, and every time they tried to go ahead with building homes in the area, the department delayed them. Last Thursday, the association had a meeting with the department but were told it needed to have “environmental documents” in order for houses to be built in Extension 6. “Our children did not go to school because of their safety, but we had spoken to our local schools in the area to let the kids take a few days from school until the situation is calm,” said Moses. The cluster commander of Soweto West, Major-General Fred Kekana, told The Star the situation had stabilised and no arrests were made in Ennerdale. “Everything is under control but I am worried about those who are looting the shops. If they don’t stop we will make arrests,” he said. Provincial police spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini said: “As criminal elements have taken the opportunity to loot businesses, damage property and disturb public peace in violent protest in the areas of Eldorado Park and Kliptown, police have arrested more than 50 suspects. "They will be charged with public violence, theft, malicious damage to property and possession of suspected stolen property. "Police have also launched a manhunt for several people who have been identified as looters, and more arrests are expected,” he said.