So says Brazilian Foreign Minister Aloysio Nunes, who is in South Africa on a visit - his first visit to Africa since taking office on March 7. Before holding bilateral discussions with his counterpart, Nunes made an emotional journey to Robben Island, and told journalists in Pretoria the experience was “a permanent reminder that oppression can't overcome the human spirit”. He added he would be paying homage to "an incredible example of a human being" - OR Tambo - by visiting his grave site yesterday afternoon. Nunes emphasised the fact that the most significant aspect of his visit to South Africa was to reaffirm relations with the continent and South Africa, and to assure his counterpart that Africa continues to be a priority in Brazil’s international relations. Minister of International Relations Maite Nkoana-Mashabane depicted relations between the two countries as a “strategic partnership”, highlighting that the two countries work together in numerous international forums such as IBSA, Brics, the G20, the G77+China and NAM. “Together as BRICS we have created the first post-Bretton Woods Institution - the New Development Bank,” Nkoana-
Mashabane said. Nunes noted that Brazil has supported the Africa Regional Centre of the NDB which is based in Joburg. The body language between the two ministers was un-
mistakably warm, as they shared a few light-hearted comments and spoke of having had a notably productive morning. “South Africa is one of our main trade partners on the continent, and while there was a slight drop in our trade in 2015 due to the economic difficulties in Brazil, we are rebuilding,” Nunes said. “There have been important investments by South African companies in Brazil, particularly in mining and the renovation of our airports.” A large trade delegation accompanied the Brazilian minister, and participated in a trade seminar yesterday in which Brazilian companies discussed how to increase trade with South Africa. “It's time to put more meaning in our bilateral engagements,” Nkoana-Mashabane said. “We also need to continue to work together on global
matters.”