This was the message from Careers Inc’s co-director Kgupi Gunguluza, whose company started the expo in 2007. The “employability summit” would not only look at exposing different careers and connecting the youth to potential bursary funders, but would also find reasons why young South Africans were unemployable and what they could do to change the situation, Gunguluza said. He added that the reason they wanted to “unpack” the unemployability of young people, especially young black people, was that they had realised that some of their marquee sponsors - such as roads agency Sanral, which had sponsored the event for the past six years - had not employed or sponsored the education of a young person who had gone through the expo. “That means no one from Soweto qualified for their bursaries or was employed by Sanral - even though we have been exposing young people to different career paths and connecting them with companies, no one has benefited from bursaries. “This means that we now have to sit down and find out where the problem lies, because even young people who go to tertiary institutions are often unemployable when they complete their qualifications. “Therefore, the Skills and Employability Indaba is where we will sit down and find out where the problem lies. Corporates, the government, schools and training institutions must come together and find solutions to this problem.” Gunguluza said they were expecting between 4 000 and 5000 young people at Orlando Community Hall, where 32 confirmed companies will be available for the youth to engage with - including Sanral, Transnet, government departments such as the departments of Labour and Public Works, and training institutions such as Rosebank and Boston colleges. “The aim is for a young person to go from stand to stand and say: ‘My name is Kgupi Gunguluza, I have matriculated. What can you do for me?’ It will be a place where one can really explore,” he said. Gunguluza said he realised there was a lack of career guidance in black families, including in his own family. He had been raised in a “well-to-do” home, attended private schools in the 1980s but had still become “lost” and “dabbled in unsavoury things”. “So, if that happened to me, what about the underprivileged young black people? “Career guidance in a lot of white families happens around a braai, where an aunt is an accountant and the uncle an engineer,” Gunguluza said. “With us black people, many of our family members are unemployed, others are blue collar workers, and others are domestic workers. So, I needed to create a space to show the black youth all the options that exist out there.” @khayakoko88