This follows collaboration between the Rwanda Development Board and non-profit organisation African Parks, which manages protected areas on behalf of governments across the continent. So far, 10 eastern black rhinos have been moved from South Africa to Akagera National Park in Rwanda, with a further 10 expected to be moved in the next week or so. “Rhinos are one of the great symbols of Africa yet they are severely threatened and are on the decline in many places across the continent due to the extremely lucrative and illegal rhino horn trade,” said African Parks chief executive Peter Fearnhead. “The rhino’s return to this country is a testament to Rwanda’s extraordinary commitment to conservation and is another milestone in the restoration of Akagera’s natural diversity,” he said. According to African Parks, more than 50 black rhinos thrived in Akagera National Park during the 1970s, but their numbers declined as a result of wide-scale poaching. The last confirmed sighting of the species was in 2007. The park, a protected savannah habitat in Rwanda, has undergone a remarkable transformation since African Parks assumed management in 2010 in partnership with the Rwanda Development Board. With fewer than 5000 black rhinos remaining across their range in the wild, of which about 1000 are the eastern black rhino subspecies, this reintroduction is an urgent, progressive and valuable opportunity for their conservation, and serves as a story of hope for the species. Since 2010, African Parks has overhauled law enforcement in the park, reducing poaching to an all-time low in six years, and today the park is flourishing. Seven lions were successfully reintroduced in 2015, and their population has since more than doubled. “Security measures have been implemented specifically to ensure the safety and well-being of the rhinos once in the park,” Fearnhead explained. Clare Akamanzi, chief executive of the Rwanda Development Board, said the return of the rhinos to Akagera opened a new chapter in the country’s conservation journey. “We are fully prepared to welcome them and ensure their safety for the benefit of our tourism industry and the community at large. “We couldn’t be more excited for their return,” she emphasised. Meanwhile, in a separate incident back home, two poachers were apprehended  in Limpopo on Monday during a shootout with police. Limpopo police spokesperson Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said a shootout erupted between the police and the poachers during an anti-poaching operation. “One poacher, a 40-year-old man, was shot and wounded, and the second suspect handed himself over for arrest. “A hunting rifle, three hunting knives and a Ford Ranger, as well as ammunition for the rifle, were recovered while two cases of rhino poaching and attempted murder were opened against the suspects,” he said. @lanc_02