And, given the chance, the king said he would eradicate abuse against women and children in just a month. He was speaking at a ceremony to unveil the grave of his mother, Queen Thomozile kaNdwandwe Zulu. Saying that it was time women hit back, Zwelithini said this was important because they played a key role in society. He said it was high time they banded together and beat men up so that they would treat women correctly. He described men who abused women as “dogs”. Sunday’s gathering also marked the opening of the Umkhumbane/Cato Manor Freedom Park Museum. The five-floor facility cost R300million. Thembinkosi Ngcobo, the head of eThekwini Municipality’s parks, recreation and culture unit, said the museum had been built even though it had received negative publicity due to its exorbitant cost. The queen’s grave site would form part of the museum, and the first phase of the project was already finished. The museum would have restaurants, Zulu arts and crafts and a history of the Zulu kingdom and Cato Manor. Zwelithini also lauded Cato Manor’s history. “Cato Manor played a great role in the liberation of the country as one of the places that angered white oppressors the most.” He said the place was initially built for people to live and feed the economy with their labour. “Black people were seen as donkeys and only seen as being good for work, and not seen as human beings,” he said. However, the people turned this on its head as they developed their own thriving economy. Zwelithini used the 1959 raids on beer halls in Cato Manor as an example of women taking action against abusive men. “The men did not listen to the women and got thrashed,” he said. He said the men had lost their way and women had to take it upon themselves to straighten things out. Their intention was to tell the men that they should not be exploited by the government and destroy the domestic economy. The government only wanted them when it was about money, which was why they set up the beer halls, he said. “They showed fearlessness,” he added, referring to the women. KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu said the building of the museum was historic because the former white oppressors did not believe that there could be a museum in a place where black people lived.