The beauty queen is a goodwill ambassador and spokesperson for the event, which is celebrated annually and is spearheaded by Cell C. Since its inception 15 years ago, Cell C has given nearly a million Grade 10 to 12 South African female pupils the opportunity to visit a place of work and
to experience various car-
eer opportunities available in business and industry and within the public service. To date more than 600 companies have signed up and will be hosting girl learners on the day. Nel-Peters, together with Miss Botswana Thata Kenosi, Miss Lesotho Mpoi Mahao and Miss Namibia Lizelle Esterhuizen, will be part of the initiative with the minister in the Presidency responsible for women. Tomorrow, when the event is celebrated, the group will host girl pupils from South Africa, as well as neighbouring countries, at the Union Buildings in Pretoria to engage with them about career choices and the importance of education. President Jacob Zuma will also address the Take a Girl Child to Work Day pupils. Companies and government departments are urged to invite girls to their organisations to allow them the opportunity to job-shadow, as they decide on what path they would like their post-school lives to take. Nel-Peters stressed that it was crucial for both the public and private sectors to allow youngsters the opportunity to spend time with them as it could impact the rest of the pupil’s life. “There are so many girls in school who don’t know about the opportunities out there. “As a graduate, I only realised things about the business world after I completed my studies.” She added that the Take A Girl Child To Work initiative was a great platform to empower girls. Nel-Peters admitted that she dreamt of being the president when she was growing up. “I was always interested in politics and I had great leadership skills from a young age.” Her second career choice was to be a lawyer, because she said she wanted to make an impact on people’s lives. Now, the current Miss SA, who hails from the Western Cape, maintains that girls can spend the rest of their lives doing what they love by participating in Take A Girl Child To Work. “This will also benefit the government and corporates because it is an indirect investment for them, as these girls could be the chief executive of these companies one day.” She added that without education and such opportunities, there can be no progress. This year, Take A Girl Child To Work coincides with global Africa Day, which will also be celebrated tomorrow. Africa Day is the annual commemoration of the founding of the now defunct Organisation of African Unity on May 25, 1963. Nel-Peters said these two events complemented each other, as this year’s Africa Day theme was women empowerment. She said both events were a wonderful way for all sectors of society, across the entire continent, to stand together and better the lives of all. Nel-Peters added: “We are not just a farming area, Africa has great potential and we are a developing continent.” Her advice to girls is simple: work hard and know that the sky’s the limit. “Nothing will land on your lap, you need to work hard and fight for your dreams.”