This is as the inaugural Jozi Games is set to be held in August at the Wanderers Club. The sporting event, which is the first of its kind, will not only allow employees from some of the biggest companies to improve their health and fitness levels, but is also an opportunity for team building and networking. Ryan Kalk, the chief executive of Discovery Soccer Park, which is managing the event, said they were expecting up to 2000 employees from more than 100 companies to participate in various sporting activities such as soccer, basketball, cricket, tennis, netball and rugby. “Essentially an Olympic Games for corporates, the Jozi Games pits the city’s corporate teams in various sporting codes against each other as they battle it out for individual and team titles to see which South African companies reign supreme not in the boardroom, but on the sportsfield.” Kalk added that the event wasn’t just about competing in the sporting realm but also promotes a spirit of unity. “The Jozi Games is born out of the idea of encouraging a corporate culture that builds team spirit, creates unity among employees and promotes pride in the company.” Kalk said such physical events were also important for employees, who often work in stressful environments and need a stress reliever which will also benefit their health. “The Games aims to improve health, fitness and general well-being in the workplace while simultaneously improving employee relationships, internal communication and teamwork. “Employees also get to enjoy the fitness and general sense of wellbeing that comes with being physically active, which is vital for all employees working in today’s fast-paced corporate environment,” he said. “The effects of sport and physical activity in helping office workers deal with stress are well documented, and the Jozi Games proactively supports this concept of employee wellness.” The Jozi Games also has networking potential for corporates to improve their business standing while the employees battle it out on the sportsfields. “As a collective, the Games also offers companies the opportunity to forge new business connections, including associations with potential new clients in their sectors,” said Kalk. “The event also gives employees from various organisations across Gauteng and surrounds the opportunity to compete against each other in a multisport championship, nurturing not only employee wellness but employee social development too.” The Jozi Games was meant to take place this month but has been moved to August as local radio station Kaya FM came on board as the official media sponsor while the Volkswagen Group South Africa has been secured as a Jozi Games’ event partner. “We believe it’s going to be an exceptional event for all the athletes and the companies involved, made even better now with the participation of our sponsors and partners,” said Kalk. The tournament will be hosted over three days, from August  18 to 20. Using the existing facilities available at the Wanderers Club, the Jozi Games will offer tournaments in 5-a-side soccer, basketball, jack attack bowls, Supa 8 cricket, squash, tennis, one-touch rugby, Fast-5s netball, Cross-fit and two-man scramble golf. A 5km fun run will also be held. All events are targeted at all levels of fitness and ability.  For more information on the competition, visit www.jozigames.co.za  @Karishma_Dipa