Davies said IPAP was firmly entrenched in the government’s overall policy and plans to address the key challenges of economic and industrial growth and race-based poverty, inequality and unemployment. The plan, which is a key component of the government’s Nine Point Plan, aims to develop a more competitive and diversified economy, with a higher global share of products. Emphasising the importance that the government attached to radical economic transformation and inclusive growth, Davies outlined new initiatives to shift the productive base of the economy and create sustainable jobs. “In the simplest terms, radical economic transformation means putting coherent initiatives together that can begin to shift the productive base of our economy away from the inherited colonial division of labour and create sustainable employment - particularly for the most marginalised and vulnerable groups in our society,” Davies said. “It means unequivocal and urgent support for programmes such as the black industrialists programme, which are increasingly being strengthened and deepened to ensure that ownership, management and control of the economy is increasingly in the hands of black people.” Davies was speaking at the launch of the ninth iteration of IPAP in Sandton. He said unless South Africa secured the necessary steps towards structural change in the economy and secured much higher levels of investment in the productive sectors of the economy, radical economic transformation may become a hollow phrase and “a movable feast for any manner of ill-considered economic recipes”. “Radical economic transformation is essential. But it is not about quick fixes and big bangs. It is hard, painstaking work. It needs pragmatism. It requires dialogue. It requires policy certainty and programme alignment. “It requires a collaborative effort with the private sector. It needs a willingness to accept trade-offs and sacrifices that can deliver social consent and stability,” Davies said. He identified radical economic transformation as one of the focus areas and key priorities of IPAP 2017/18 and 2019/20. This would consist of up-
scaled efforts to secure shared and inclusive growth with respect to transformation of ownership and management control, and empowerment through decent jobs, especially in labour-intensive sectors. Davies also stressed the need for a step change to secure a higher impact, focused industrial strategy which can secure much higher levels of investment, especially in manufacturing, to lead the country’s economy out of its current trajectory. - ANA