Mashatile, who is the ANC provincial leader, said the megacities projects were aimed at changing apartheid spatial planning, and that 31 of them were already under way in areas including Clayville in Ekurhuleni. He said the government would come on board and put resources on the table, and invite investors to invest in the projects. The future cities would boast public amenities including “schools of the future” and clinics, among other facilities. In line with the government’s radical economic transformation agenda, Mashatile said yesterday they wanted the multibillion-rand projects to benefit small, medium and macro enterprises and other local industries. “We want to see a lot of local employment,” he said. Tomorrow's summit would serve to raise capital, as more than R30billion was needed for the projects. Mashatile said they had roped in the Gauteng Partnership Fund (GPF), a housing development initiative, to “drive the process of capital-raising and implementation of the mega projects”. He said the mega projects, a public private partnership initiative, would stimulate economic growth, adding: “We want to turn Gauteng into a construction site and change the face of the province.” GPF chief executive Boni Muvevi said: “The master plans are there. We will look at how we fund them. What is clear is that the government wants to change the strategy and pace in housing delivery.” Muvevi said more than R90bn was needed to address the infrastructure backlog in the country, and that the first phase of the mega projects would require about R30bn to implement. “In mega projects we have had quite a bit of interest. The PIC (Public Investment Corporation) has given some expression of interest to fund We have had other platforms we have now created that will allow investors who will come to the summit with various appetites that will be able to commit large volumes of funding,” Muvevi added. However, Human Sciences Research Council executive director Ivan Turok has been quoted as saying the projects were dangerous and that they didn’t address underlying community issues, didn’t provide direct access to job opportunities and were financially insecure. Mashatile countered, saying: “In terms of structural challenges, we ensure that when developers embark on these projects, they provide quality. We don’t take chances with respect to quality. There are projects that the GPF have done as well in the inner city of Joburg and Tshwane, Ekurhuleni, Kempton Park and Germiston. You can really see it's quality products (that they are delivering).”