The gramophone record is so popular an entire Joburg event has been dedicated to it. #VinylSundays will make a return for the May edition of South Africa’s longest-running Vinyl Fair. The event, which the entire family is invited to attend, will take place on Sunday at the Stanley Beer Yard in Auckland Park. Joburg’s home of craft beer will also house record dealers from across the province. This month, the Vinyl Fair is expanding to welcome two new record dealers to the fold. These include Afrosynth Records, with owner DJ Okapi offering an impressive selection of African records. The duo Martin Green & Pieter Rossouw will also be trading this month, joined by fair regulars such as Mr Vinyl, Record Mad, Vinyl Junkie, Compact Discovery, Croak Audio, Andy Smith, Reg, Barney Stathakis and TJ Duplessis. From this vast collection of vinyl these record dealers will offer, music lovers who attend the fair are sure to walk away with some of the best that music has to offer. “There is something for every music collector, from the very beginner to the seasoned specialist,” organiser of the Vinyl Fair Bret Dugmore told The Star. He said #VinylSundays started as a simple gathering of record enthusiasts and dealers in  2012. “We were just a bunch of friends that would meet  once a month to trade and buy vinyl from each other,” he said. “It was very small at the beginning, but as the interest grew, the fair got bigger and bigger.” He explained that the reason vinyl is such a hit among music lovers is because of the way it sounds in comparison to modern music formats. “Analogue vinyl records sound incredible and are a much better listening experience than digital, MP3s or CDs,” he said. “This might seem counter-intuitive to some, but vinyl is true sound, without any compression, and can reveal so much more to the music than any other medium.” He added that digital music may be a far more convenient way to listen to but it compromises quality. “Many of us who grew up in the age of CDs and digital are only discovering this for the first time. “When you buy vinyl, you can actually touch music again and you get to experience the artwork of the large record covers, the pull-out posters and giant lyric sheets that are so sorely missed when you only have digital music.” Dugmore said it is also an enjoyable pastime for people to collect records. “People have fallen in love with the idea of being able to collect music as a physical, tangible product and there is no better medium for this than vinyl.” Admission to the event is free and food as well as beverages, such as craft beer, will also be available.