“I’d like to see a 50-50 (percentage) split of men and women participating in Comrades in my lifetime,” she says with conviction. A dream indeed! Especially when you consider the fact that the numbers are at about 79-21% split at this year’s event. According to the Comrades Marathon Association (CMA), a total of 16852 males have registered for the 92nd edition of the Ultimate Human Race  compared to 4605 females. However, Koza is not one to shirk a responsibility. When she sets herself a goal, she goes for it with gusto. This Fat Cats Athletics Club runner and vice-chairperson completed her back-to-back Comrades last year and shaved off a remarkable 40 minutes from her maiden race time. This is in spite of having had doctors advise her against running due to an injury she’d sustained in January and thus only started training mid-April. “I got to Comrades with just 326km training for the year and I was very scared. But the power of the mind is something else. My mind said ‘no backing down’, and with the support from my teammates I made it to Durban.” Koza was one of just two women from the club who ran the 2016 edition. The other one was Lebo Mathatho. This year, however, there will be no fewer than 22 women lining up at the Durban City Hall in the red and black Fat Cats vests to start the race. Along with Koza and Mathatho, there are two others - Nelisa Ntshinga and Zanele Hlatshwayo - who ran the race last year, but for different clubs. “It really bothers me that there’s so few women doing Comrades and that’s why we (Fat Cats) started encouraging women at our club to consider running this amazing race. “I saw we have a lot of strong runners in the club, all they needed was encouragement to know Comrades is not the monster it is made out to be. And with the great support from the club, we will now have over 20 of us at the race instead of just the two we had last year.” Such has been the impact of the Fat Cats’ social media campaign encouraging women to take up running and running Comrades in particular that they have been invited to give a talk at the Comrades Expo, “It was very exciting to hear from Comrades and the fact they acknowledge what we are doing. So we will basically be sharing our personal stories and our story as a club about how we’ve mobilised our female members to run Comrades and to take the project to the women nationally.” But what’s behind this need - which has seen Fat Cats go on a massive #SheRuns campaign that has seen them being interviewed on radio and television - to have more women run Comrades? “I believe women are strong beings. Also, I think women can endure more pain than men and because of that, I feel this drive to want to ensure there are more women running Comrades. Besides, we need to make Comrades much more beautiful and attractive,” she laughs. That much the Fat Cats ladies have achieved, with a lot of men suddenly wanting to join the club. Many of the runners at Fat Cats took to running as a way to shed some weight but once the bug bit, they couldn’t stop. “I used to be overweight and was forever tired and lazy until I started running,” says Lebo Sedupane, a Comrades novice. “But now I find I am much more productive and happier,  thanks to running. I can’t believe I am going for my first Comrades. And I can recommend running to every woman out there. It is so liberating.” Koza takes over: “Last year April we hosted a women’s event where we had personal trainers sharing the importance of women to keep fit. We even had a 5km fun run, and ladies who had never run before participated and we signed up quite a few. Can you believe some of them will be running Comrades?” And so it will be that come June 4, the route from Durban’s City Hall to Pietermaritzburg’s Scottsville Race Course will be teeming with ladies in red vests. “This is just a start though. The goal, not a dream, is a 50-50 split,” Koza says. 