This was announced as Cope threatened to physically block him from returning to his job. Cope spokesperson Dennis Bloem had on Sunday threatened that the party's members would protest outside the Eskom HQ in Megawatt Park, Sandton, and prevent Molefe from entering the building. Bloem later said they were planning the way forward after the police reminded them late Sunday they had not applied for permission to picket at Eskom’s offices. Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown was to appear before the ANC at Luthuli House on Monday to account for her decision to rehire Molefe. The ANC is insisting that Brown reverse the decision. Eskom board spokesperson Khulani Qoma said all necessary measures had been put in place to prevent disruption of their plans for Molefe’s return. “Mr Molefe is accorded VIP protection as per Eskom policy. The SAPS has been informed and will respond appropriately. Eskom security has also been placed on high alert. Importantly, no one has been given permission to march to Eskom,” said Qoma. Bloem said they were still deciding what to do after the police had said their picket outside Eskom offices was illegal. He said they were in a difficult position because Eskom’s decision was announced on Friday and an application for permission to march takes seven days. However, he said they would not allow Molefe to return to work, and if they could not protest on Monday, they would do it later, after getting permission. Molefe could not be reached for comment on Sunday. Molefe’s return to Eskom has been a subject of condemnation, from parties in Parliament to civil society groups. The ANC joined other parties on Friday to criticise Eskom for its decision to re-appoint Molefe. Brown defended her decision, but was to hear what the ANC had to say on Monday. She said it was a question of whether Molefe was given R30 million as a pension payout or whether he returned to the position he left in November. Molefe served his last day as ANC MP on Sunday. He quit after only three months, having served as a member of Parliament's portfolio committee on international relations. The Star