Durban – R20 to spend a penny – that’s what a beachfront restaurant is charging people to use its toilets. One Durban man is so peed off that he has taken to Facebook in a post that has gone viral. Overport resident Reeza Khan and his cousin were walking on the pier at Durban’s North Beach on Sunday evening when they needed to use the toilets. “We went up the stairs and didn’t see the sign. Before we could enter the restrooms this manager rushed up and asked for R20,” Khan said. “We asked whether he meant R2 or R20,” said Khan and the pair were taken aback when it was R20 each. “My cousin asked if we could not get a cooldrink instead, but we were told cooldrinks don’t qualify. So I paid R40 to use the restroom. When we came out we were given the slip with the charges listed.” Khan posted on Facebook: “In my whole entire existence on this earth, this is the most expensive p*** I’ve ever taken. R20 each to use the restrooms. That’s ridiculous… oh wowwow, and to top it off‚ we even received a slip for the facilities used #daylightrobberybutatnight.” The restaurant, The Jolly Grubber, has a sign at the entrance to the premises: “Toilets are for use of Jolly Grubber customers only. Buying just drinks will not qualify you to use these facilities. Therefore, it is unlawful dishonest, theft, haraam to use this facility without permission. Service charge of R20 per person payable at the counter. This is not a public toilet.” Owner Junaid Moola was not available for comment yesterday, but the restaurant did comment on its Facebook page. It said the company would like to clarify the misunderstanding after the “recent social media debacle” and that it did not charge patrons for the use of the toilet facilities. “It is for your convenience,” the statement read. “However for non-patrons that support other establishments but choose to use our facilities, there is a service charge of R20. “The hundreds that frequent the beachfront area and want to gatecrash, insisting on wanting to use our clean facilities for free… leaving our facilities in a disgusting mess, for us to clean up. This is most certainly unacceptable. “This is not a question about humanity, compassion nor religion, there are free public facilities just a stone’s throw away.” Khan disputed that they had been eating at another eatery. “If we are comfortable enough eating at one establishment, surely we would be comfortable enough using the restrooms at that establishment?” Khan, who works in the hospitality industry, thought the amount was ridiculous. “This is utter nonsense.”