Music, dance, arts and fashion will see the city of Maputo come alive when the annual festival comes to town. Organiser Paulo Chibanga said sounds represented at the festival, happening at Eduardo Mondlane University, would include everything from jazz, soul, marrabenta, samba and afro-beat to hip-hop, pop, electronica, reggae and more. The Mozambican festival will bring together a diverse and quality programme. Azgo is part of the Igoda music festival circuit that includes the Sakifo Festival, the Bassline Africa Day concert and the Bushfire Festival - all of which take place over a period of three weeks. This has created an artist- and festival-goer touring circuit in southern Africa. Ray Phiri, doing a tour of all the Igoda festivals, will perform alongside Freshlyground, Batuk, Nonku Phiri and Vukazithathe. Headline acts include Brazilian singer-songwriter Maria Gadú, who fuses samba, afrobeat and funk. Rapper Ângelo César do Rosário Firmino, better known as Boss AC, from Cape Verde, uses a blend of African rhythms with traditional Portuguese sounds with hip-hop, ragga, soul and R&B. The iconic Phiri will be showing off his dance moves and creative prowess when he hits the stage in Maputo. “I'm a student of life and I'll never stop discovering, creating and exploring,” he said. Freshlyground have a new single out called Banana Republic, and it's to be their first show in Maputo since the 2013 festival. They'll take their fans down memory lane with their famous hits. The eclectic ensemble Batuk, made up of producers Spoek Mathambo and Aero Manuela, and vocalist Manteiga, will be connecting Africans through their rhythm culture and language while fusing it with electrifying house beats. Singer Nonku Phiri and instrumentalist and composer Vukazithathe round off the South African artists taking part in the festival. Other international artists include Joao Barbosa from Portugal, Ghana’s Jojo Abot, rock and dub band Grè*  Sémé from Réunion Island, and some of the most influential Mozambican artists. These include the Ghorwane band, hip-hop artist Azagaia, The Mute Band, jazz artist Xixel Langa and many more that represent the past, present and future of Mozambican music. The Azgo Festival is all about celebrating Mozambican cultural heritage and artistic life and promoting the country as a destination for music lovers. “We aim to bring together various genres, different crowds and different artists, emerging and well known. This serves as a platform for emerging and acclaimed artists to collaborate and meet a new audience,” said Chibanga. The festival will take place on May 20. On Wednesday, Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa launched the Africa Month celebrations. The month is recognised to celebrate the founding of the Organisation of African Unity (now the AU) on May 25, 1963.