Durban – If Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba thought he had a good week at the World Economic Forum on Africa hosted in Durban last week, it would certainly seem short-lived, as an interview by his wife Norma has injected a dash of venom into US based fashionista Buhle Mkhize's skin. Mhkize, a woman who Gigaba had allegedly cheated with, appeared to have created a new Twitter account on Tuesday to hit back at Norma. Mhkize appeared aggrieved that the wife of the Finance Minister had seemingly referred or implied she was a prostitute in an interview with eNCA at the weekend. About being paid to smear the frog Part 3 pic.twitter.com/hoKDcEtRKC — Buhle Mkhize (@buhlemkhize85) May 9, 2017     About being paid to smear the frog part II pic.twitter.com/EbbF8RfEqQ — Buhle Mkhize (@buhlemkhize85) May 9, 2017     About being paid, Part I pic.twitter.com/yQAaioSk35 — Buhle Mkhize (@buhlemkhize85) May 9, 2017   Mkhize dismissed those on social media who said she was speaking out because she was angry that Gigaba had chosen Norma over her. She suggested Norma, would rather die than leave Gigaba.  I also accept the nation's.' Buhle never had/ doesn't have a man of her own'. I'm done unless Homonaledi goes for more screen time. Thanks pic.twitter.com/7gTSlVzY8h — Buhle Mkhize (@buhlemkhize85) May 9, 2017   Mkhize also questioned if Norma was an "IT specialist", tweeting that the former Minister of Home Affairs had once told her that she in fact had no degree and suggested she had only certificate studies in IT.   I'm failing to gather what it is you do but this is what I know @normzmngoma .#IKNOWImBeingPetty#UNGISUKELELENI pic.twitter.com/mKorl84WiS  — Buhle Mkhize (@buhlemkhize85) May 9, 2017   And according to Mkhize, Gigaba can forget about his chances of becoming president with Norma at her side.  Just like you stand by yr words I STAND BY MINE. I take EVERY apology I ever made to you BACK !!!!. There was no need for this @normzmngoma pic.twitter.com/hNOpHPuH9e  — Buhle Mkhize (@buhlemkhize85) May 9, 2017 