With just a few weeks to go, the style element of the grand social gathering is already under way. This is as judges of the Vodacom Durban July Fashion Challenge have already shortlisted finalists for competition. This year’s theme is “The Colour of Magic”, and the fashion programme director, Tiffany Prior, said the quality of the entries was impressive and there was a record number this year. “There was an amazing energy in the entries, and there was a substantial increase in the number of storyboard entries,” she said. Scores of hopefuls submitted their storyboards in the hope of their visions making it through to the prestigious event, presented by Durban Fashion. They were judged by a panel of some of the best in the fashion world, who had the capabilities to fully grasp the designers’ intentions from the storyboards presented in their presence. “It is always a difficult process as we rely entirely on what the designer has managed to communicate to each judge through their storyboard,” said Prior. The judges includes local designer Terrence Bray, Sindi Shangase, Terrence Pillay, Greg Wallis and Gold Circle’s Monica Holman. Together, the group mulled over every storyboard submitted, identifying the strongest entries that showed a clear grasp of the theme, current trends and creative execution potential. Prior said the national competition began with fashionistas submitting their entries at the Ice Models offices in Durban. The entrants provided storyboards that included very detailed technical drawings of the design, a motivation to support their creative interpretation of the theme “The Colour of Magic”, and numerous swatches and samples of the fabric, trim and accessories they envisage for the outfit. Following the entire process of submissions and judging, the top 10 have been announced. “It took several painstaking hours to further reduce the top storyboards to the best 10, and the process of contacting the successful designers got under way,” Prior said. The finalists are Martin Steenkamp, Yanela Mtolo, Alice Rash, Nishthi Sewnath, Tilonê Viljoen, Ntokozo Buthelezi, Wanda Majubana and Mellissa Scandarra, who are all from Durban. The other two are Georgia Rhoda from Mbombela  and Teresa Joubert from Stellenbosch. Prior said the judges were thrilled about the overall quality of designs of the finalists. “What was encouraging was the way that the best storyboards interpreted the theme,” she said. “They understood it was about the ‘magic of fashion’ and also read the warning that it wasn’t all about the colour red.” The 2017 Vodacom Durban July takes place at the Greyville Racecourse on July 1. More information at www.vodacomdurbanjuly.co.za