This was a poem of appreciation by Grade 5 pupil Surprise Mahlangu recited during the official opening of the new Sinenhlanhla Primary school in Bronkhorstspruit. The 10-year-old recited her poem to Education MEC Pan-
yaza Lesufi, his Infrastructure Development counterpart Jacob Mamabolo, and parents in attendance yesterday. Meanwhile, her classmates held up letters of the alphabet spelling out “Thank you, Mr Lesufi”. The school in Rethabiseng will accommodate 1200 pupils from grades R to 7. Lesufi said the school was one of many the Gauteng Education Department would be building around the province to alleviate the schools shortage. Sinenhlanha is the 49th school opened by the Gauteng Department of Education since 2014. “Every month until 2019, we will be opening a new school in the province. Today, your children will have a state-of-the-art school with all the equipment they could ask for. “Even if you don’t have hot water at home, rest assured that your children will have access to it here at school. RDPs and grants end here with these children, because their grant will be education,” he said. Lesufi said the legacy of the apartheid schooling system only taught black children to work for white people and not to become creators and innovators, which would give them a better life. “They will learn how to build laptops, helicopters and all these things that they are exposed to. “With this we say one teacher, one laptop; one learner, one tablet is the future of education in our communities.” Mamabolo said R97million had been allocated to the development of the school, and the property was valued at R122m. The school boasts a multi-
purpose hall, 28 smart classrooms, two science laboratories, a computer lab, library, sports facilities, generator room and water tankers. It has also been equipped with roof insulation, solar panels, energy-saving lighting, a rainwater harvesting tank, landscaping and insulated walls. “The children from this community will be like others who go to school in Sandton and America. This is an investment to change the lives of this community, so let us all get value for each and every cent spent here,” he said. The government officials pleaded with the community to look after the school and to not resort to vandalising property during service delivery protests. “This school is for the benefit of all in this community. I will not build a school or fix it up should you burn it down because you are unhappy about something,” said Lesufi.