These were the words of a visibly shaken Queen Lebo Mkhize, from the Kings and Queens cell group (ministries), at the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court yesterday. Mkhize and members of the community were among those opposing the bail application of Sandile Mantsoe, who faces charges of premeditated murder and defeating the ends of justice. “We cannot allow the kingdom of darkness to rule in this country, to rule our children’s lives and do as he pleases. “It is time to live for our true and core purpose, which is to depopulate the kingdom of darkness,” said a shocked Mkhize. Outside the courtroom, DA members and Seed Community representatives were singing and protesting in support of Karabo Mokoena, who was killed and burnt earlier this month. “We are here to support Karabo and what has been happening in the country because it is worrying us. It is time for us as women to stand and fight,” said Seed Community representative Nkuli Mbatha. “Karabo is a voice. She might be dead but she is fighting for us wherever she is. “Through her, men will know that women need to be respected and loved regardless of issues. “You do not need to kill someone,” said Mbatha. The bail application of Mokoena’s boyfriend Mantsoe was postponed to June 9. This follows State prosecutor John Metswamere and the defence’s formal application to bar the media from reporting on the bail proceedings. The presiding officer, magistrate Karel Labuschagne, made an unprecedented ruling that all media houses were barred from publishing anything on the bail application proceedings with an expectation of the bail judgment. “The court must also take into consideration that this is a formal bail application, and if it is broadcast what effect it will have in future on the accused facing trial,” he said. Further giving an explanation of the court’s decision was National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane, who said: “As the State, we are concerned that there might be sensitive information which is divulged in court during the bail proceedings which might directly impact on the kind of 
investigations that are still ongoing. “Hence we are worried that we don’t want such information in the public.” Meanwhile, members of the South African Students’ Congress brought the Nelson Mandela  Bridge in Braamfontein to a standstill as students from various universities conducted a march to highlight the violent attacks against women
and children that have been
taking place in the past few weeks. “We call on students to unite and reclaim their communities... We call on our society to remember and practise our African values, which prioritise ubuntu,” announced Fasiha Hassan, a leader of the movement. Placards and banners were held high as students sang and shouted “Stop killing our sisters”. Hassan told The Star that they had chosen the Nelson Mandela Bridge following a recent attack on Lehlohonolo Mlampo, who was abducted nearby on May 15. @Zwane_2li2ls @sabie_m