She was given the honour by Luminance, a fashion and lifestyle concept store, at a high tea held in Hyde Park to celebrate her work and the people who made it all possible - her mother and grandmother. Luminance’s Dr Judy Dlamini said it was important to recognise women who made an impact in the world. “Today is about the women in our lives. We have wanted to celebrate Terry as she has gone on to become a true star. Not just film and television; she has received awards from all over and remains humble.” Pheto struggled to fight the tears when she was awarded the star. “I have always been protective of my family but I am glad to be able to celebrate them right now. Thank you for everything, I am where I am because of you two,” she said as she smiled at her mother and grandmother. Pheto said her journey had been a long one and spoke about how her recent Best Supporting Actress award at the UK National Film Awards in London was one of the most important of her career. Her mother had wanted her to be a teacher. “My upbringing really helped me to be patient and to know that nothing comes easy or for free. I can do anything and face anything. I did have a bit of laziness growing up, and my grandmother would ask me where I thought I was going to work, because no one would hire me if I was lazy.” Pheto said she knew from a young age that she wouldn't be cleaning houses for people. “To see where I am today and to be celebrated is so overwhelming. One day I will write a story about my journey. I will always work hard to make sure that I don’t go back to where I come from,” she said. Pheto, who won an award for her role in A United Kingdom, said starring in the Oscar-winning local film Tsotsi a few years ago had opened doors. “Every role is important to me. I have been blessed to do what I love. I understand the importance of brave and strong women. I believe in the stories we have to tell, and I believe in local talent,” she said. She said her mom had been more a mother than a friend. “She taught me to respect life and people and to work hard. I can only share my story with others and hope that people can take from that.” The event was attended by Melanie Bala, Melody Molale, Norma Gigaba, actress Carmel Fisher, former Miss SA Vanessa Carreira-Coutroulis, Lerato Sengadi, Celeste Khumalo, Relebogile Mabotja and other celebs, socialites and bloggers. @mane_mpi