The renowned American dancer, choreographer, and musician is known around the world for popular Irish dance shows. Now, local fans can get a taste of the action as the Lord of the Dance: Dangerous Games will host the “Pop-up” Michael Flatley Dance Academy. This is in conjunction with the 2017 South Africa tour of Lord of the Dance: Dangerous Games, beginning in August. “The ‘Pop-up’ workshops are for everyone to enjoy, whether you are a dancer, dance enthusiast or simply want to experience our world onstage,” the organisers said. The legendary dancer wrote on his website that it has always been his dream to bring this style of dance to life. “It was always a dream of mine to bring my style of Irish dance to the world stage, and
I am proud to say that 20 years on, my shows have been seen by over 50 million people across the globe.” He said the idea of hosting the dance workshops was to heed calls from fans of all ages from across the world. “Over the years, I have received countless letters from young people who have been inspired to learn to dance after watching the shows, and it has been humbling for me that many of them have realised their dreams through sheer dedication and have become stars themselves in my shows.” Flatley added that the workshop aims to teach this unique style of Irish dance to children in a positive and mentoring environment that builds self-confidence while instilling an appreciation of rhythm, movement, music, fitness and culture. “Girls and boys of all levels, from beginner to advanced, are invited to join, whether it is just for fun or if their dream is to perform on stage. If you believe in yourself and are willing to work hard, then nothing is impossible.” Flatley’s fans who don’t have dance experience shouldn’t despair as they will learn the basics and will also get the chance to meet the talented cast and ask them questions. “Our workshops are open to everyone, from children to adults, so go ahead, bring your mom and dad. “No matter what your background in dance is, there is something for everyone.” The workshops will take place in select theatres in South Africa where the Lord of the Dance: Dangerous Games cast will be performing. These include Grand West Casino in Cape Town on August 12 as well as Montecasino in Fourways the following weekend. For information on the South African tour, visit: http://michaelflatleydance.com/#workshops @Karishma_Dipa 