Microsoft’s funds will go towards helping the UN agency develop and make better use of technology in its human rights work as part of a five-year partnership, the parties said at a news conference in Geneva. UN human rights chief Zeid Ra’ad al Hussein, who has called his agency “dramatically and chronically underfunded”, said he hoped the donation would encourage others 
in the private sector to contribute. On top of funding from the UN budget, Zeid has called for voluntary donations of $253m this year. Almost all such donations come from governments. “We’re re-
ceiving close to zero from the private sector,” Laurent Sauveur, the head of external relations at the UN human rights office, said at a separate briefing. “We feel the private sector has a tremendous role to play. We do believe that it needs to step up to the plate.” Sauveur said the agency had tried to form partnerships with the private sector but lacked capacity. The UN Office for Human Rights has a far smaller budget than the humanitarian arms of the UN such as the refugee agency UNHCR, the children’s agency Unicef and the World Food Programme, which are experienced at raising private donations. Countries that did not make voluntary donations to the human rights office last year include China, Syria, Israel, Iran and North Korea. Peggy Hicks, the UN human rights office’s head of thematic engagement, said $5m would go a long way in the human rights sector, despite a $100m funding gap. “The UN human rights office is going to be able to harness the potential of technology to tackle human rights abuse more effectively, and at the same time will be better placed to respond to the new human rights challenges that may be posed by technology,” she said. Microsoft will also give technological support to the agency, according to Hicks. Microsoft president Brad Smith said the partnership was an opportunity to 
grow the role of technology in the safeguarding and defence of human rights. “In many ways we look at the human rights situation around the world and we see a still untapped opportunity for technology to help,” Smith told reporters in Geneva via video link. One way technology could contribute to the agency would be in the collection and analysis of large amounts of data that is now required for it to carry out its work, he said. Technology giants such as Google, Apple and Facebook are under scrutiny for their privacy policies as governments want to raid their vast stores of data to conduct surveillance on their own populations. Hicks said the UN had done extensive due diligence before accepting Microsoft’s donation. Smith said any company making a donation should respect the mission and the needs of the organisation, and “get involved only if you’re comfortable”. Last year, it received only $129m in donations, rang-
ing from $17m from the US to $1816 from Mauritius. 
- Reuters