The party’s firm stance came while the disgruntled members descended on Luthuli House - ANC headquarters - in Joburg to demand that secretary-general Gwede Mantashe give an instruction to provincial leaders, especially Zamani Saul, to refrain from going ahead with the conference. They have accused Saul - who is contesting the position of provincial chairperson with the incumbent premier and ANC provincial treasurer Sylvia Lucas - of manipulating the number of delegates allowed to participate in the conference, claiming that most belong to “Zamani Saul’s faction”. But the ANC in Joburg was having none of it. Spokesperson Zizi Kodwa disagreed that proper processes were not followed in the build-up to the conference, and that it would go ahead. “The secretary-general signed the documents according to the guidelines that are in place. All disputes were resolved. The conference is going ahead.” The complaints came from three regions - Frances Baard in Kimberley; John Taolo Gaetsewe in Kuruman; and ZF Mgcawu region in Upington, hoping to gain the attention of President Jacob Zuma and Mantashe. When they arrived, none of them was in the building and they were forced to have meetings with party administrators. Now these members have threatened to occupy the ANC headquarters until the top brass talk to them. Earlier, these disgruntled members - who are vying for Lucas to take over the ANC leadership - contradicted Mantashe’s view that everything was done according to ANC guidelines. They remain firm in their claim that important branch general meetings did not take place ahead of the conference. Reginald Alexander from the ZF Mgcawu region was adamant that the conference should not go ahead without proper process being followed. He said the Northern Cape had numerous disputes and complaints that were not being addressed by the ANC’s national structures. “We are disputing the fact that the conference must continue because there are a lot of disputes that have not been attended. These disputes are lying on the secretary-general’s table. We are coming here to tell the top six to attend to our disputes,” Alexander said. While these members were  challenging Mantashe’s decision, those close to Saul are looking forward to their conference. Last week, Saul exerted his powers in the ANC provincial executive committee (PEC) when he and his supporters in the PEC stopped Lucas from reshuffling her cabinet. This was after Lucas summoned all her MECs to her office last Tuesday and told them of her plan to reshuffle her cabinet on Wednesday. But when the matter was raised by the PEC, she was opposed, and her plans went into disarray. According to insiders, Lucas wanted to deal with all those supporting Saul. Confirming that the PEC rejected Lucas’s plan, Saul said:  “Any changes should first have been communicated with the top five and then the PEC. “After discussing the matter, we would then engage the individual alliance partners before any decision to reshuffle can be made. “This has been the practice in the ANC for over 15 years,” he said. Saul, however, denied that the upcoming conference, where he appears to enjoy majority support, was likely to pronounce on Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed Jacob gun,” he said. According to Saul, the ANC has not allowed provinces to make such announcements. He also said it would not allow any disruptions at the conference, but declined to reveal the security plans. “We are not going to allow our conference to be turned into a war zone. We are going to ensure that all our delegates and invited guests are safe,” he said. Various regional ANC leaders have put their weight behind Saul.