“The question of foreign nationals attacked in this country - I hear a lot of people saying it would affect business, South African business, within the continent. “But it can’t be reduced to matters of business. The question of attacks on foreigners goes to our core values,” Makhubela said on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum on Africa. “It is against what we stand for as a country. It has nothing to do with a monetary impact. “It is a social and a moral thing for us as South Africans. “That is why the rest of South Africans are really against these attacks on
foreign nationals. “It is a moral issue that we need to address.” Sporadic incidents of violence targeted at foreign nationals have flared up in various parts of South Africa over the years. Several people have been killed in these violent incidents despite the government’s various initiatives to foster tolerance between citizens and the millions of immigrants who live in the country. More than 1000 leaders from over 100 countries, representing business, government, academia, civil society, media and the arts, are in Durban for the WEF meeting, which is this year themed “Achieving Inclusive Growth through Responsive and Responsible Leadership”. Makhubela said the WEF was a premier platform and
“a meeting of minds”. “It brings African leaders both from the business and civil society together to chat a way forward in terms of the economic development of the continent. “Also to deal with related matters that are hindering development, or matters that might really enhance the economic development of the country. “So this is an interaction where the best brains meet in the continent to chat a way forward for all of us in Africa,” said Makhubela. He added that hosting the WEF summit in Durban would have incredible offsets for the city. Brand South Africa will host a thought leadership breakfast with business and government stakeholders (WEF Africa 
delegates) to explore and 
deliberate on the role of business in achieving inclusive growth. The discussions will enable participants to share insights on how best to navigate the future and explore collaborative actions that could shape the global, regional and industry agendas to provide real benefit to the African continent. - ANA