Jeppe is considered to be the worst affected police station as it is short of seven vehicles and 44 personnel, while also experiencing high levels of contact crime, including murder, assault and robbery. This is according to written responses by Community Safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane in the Gauteng Legislature. The DA asked the MEC to provide details about the shortages of personnel and vehicles and crime statistics from four police stations in the cluster. According to Nkosi-Malobane, Cleveland police station is short of four vehicles and eight policemen; Sandringham is short of one vehicle while having a full complement of staff, while Yeoville is not short of any vehicles but lacks seven personnel. In her response, Nkosi-Malobane said crimes reported at the stations between April 2016 and March 2017 saw a slight increase. Murder in the Cleveland sector saw a 27% increase, from 29 murders to 37, compared to the previous years. Jeppe saw a 10% increase from 80 to 88 murders. However, Sandringham and Yeoville experienced a decrease in the number of murders reported in the respective areas. Sandringham police station’s statistics reflected a
25% decrease in the number of murders from eight cases reported to six. Yeoville, on the other hand, saw a 45% decrease from 31 murders cases reported to 17. In total, 2764 contact crimes and 1492 property crimes were reported at Jeppe police station, 1147 contact crimes and 884 property crimes were reported at Cleveland police station, 1737 contact crimes and 889 property crimes reported at Yeoville police station, while 630 contact crimes and 556 property-related crimes were reported at Sandringham police station. Gauteng DA MPL and Johannesburg East constituency head Jack Bloom said prescribed standard dictated that two vehicles should be patrolling each sector for 24 hours. But according to the reply, which provides information on Jeppe, Yeoville, Cleveland and Sandringham police stations, this happens only in one out of 13 sectors in the suburbs covered by these stations. “Police blame the lack of 24-hour vehicle patrols on a shortage of personnel and/or vehicles at the four stations,” Bloom said. “My information is that the vehicle shortage is often because police vehicles spend weeks and sometimes months waiting for repairs in badly run workshops. Speeding up vehicle repairs would help, as would filling all police vacancies and using existing staff more efficiently.”