Yesterday, the world celebrated Star Wars Day - a day marked down for May 4 - which has adopted the well-known greeting “May the Fourth be with You”, which is a spoof on the franchise’s most famous quote: “May the force be with you”. May 4 has been celebrated as Star Wars Day for over 20 years. It was first established by fans in 1995, based on the pun previously mentioned. However, May 25 is also celebrated by Star Wars fans as it marks the day the original Star Wars film - Episode IV - A New Hope was released. As a Star Wars fan, my favourite thing to do is a binge watch of the films or animated series, take part in a little light-sabre training and read one of my many Darth Vader, Obi Wan Kenobi or Han Solo comic books while sipping a glass of homemade blue milk (full-cream milk mixed with some sugar, vanilla essence and a touch of blue food colouring). Other awesome ideas to celebrate the franchise is to dress up as a famous character like Princess Leia, Luke Skywalker, a Jedi or Sith Lord like Darth Vader or have a Star Wars themed party - there or many Star Wars trivia games available to pick your brain and test your knowledge. A Star Wars movie night is always a fun way to celebrate the day, too. If you’re feeling really in the mood, how about splashing out on some Star Wars themed Lego and spending the day building your own personalised galaxy with the family. (I have quite a large collection, it’s pricey but a great way to get the kids involved in the action.) There’s also nothing better than “educating” my niece and nephew on the various characters, planets and stories using the awesomely illustrated Star Wars Atlas. We also end up playing with light sabres, flying Lego Star Wars ships and generally just having a good time. A Star Wars themed meal also goes down well, like Maz and cheese (macaroni cheese designed to look like pirate queen Maz Kanata, Storm Trooper rice balls or some Darth Vader cookies. But the main theme of Star Wars Day is all about family and friends coming together, hanging out and spending precious moments enjoying life together. @Lanc_02