Above-average rainfall in the mainly Mashonaland province, where most of the crop is grown and availability of funds for fertiliser and seeds ahead of planting last year, also helped. So more maize was planted, conditions were good, and Zimbabwe will not have to import food at least for the next year. Although forecasts for the size of the maize crop vary within the farming sector, the agriculture ministry predicts a near record-breaking crop for the 2016/2017 season. Other sources say the ministry’s forecast is overly optimistic, but no one is yet absolutely sure of the size of the harvest except that it is dramatically better than several previous seasons. So, for the first time in recent years, there is optimism about farm production in Zimbabwe. “The country is fully food secure, with our current grain reserves standing at 160000 tons,” the ministry of agriculture, mechanisation and irrigation development permanent secretary, Ringson Chitsiko, told a parliamentary committee. “The country expects to harvest not less than 2.5 million tons of grain; maize and small grains put together,” he added. Zimbabwe, like much of southern Africa, suffered a crippling drought during the 2015/6 season, which left about a quarter of the population in need of food aid, much of which was imported from neighbouring Zambia. Western donors also provided and continue to supply food in several parts of the country. Maize production has been difficult for several years because many farmers were unable to borrow cash for fertiliser and seeds, and as a result of unreliable rainfall. The agriculture sector suffered a major setback by a takeover of 90% of white-owned farms since 2000. While white farmers only produced a minority of the average maize crop, they did produce most of the seed maize. Many small-scale farmers who operated near white farmers often piggybacked their transport and collected their fertiliser and seed from their white neighbours. But after the white farmers were forced out, transport inputs became unreliable and often extremely expensive for many small-scale farmers. It is not yet clear how the government will finance its pledge to pay farmers about R5000 per ton of maize this season. Maize could be imported from the region, particularly South Africa, for nearly half that price. However, analysts say the promise of the huge price for maize, good and continuous rains from planting onwards, as well as easier credit for fertiliser and seed, all contributed to Zimbabwe’s much better crop production this season.