Since the early hours of Monday morning, workers had gathered on the campus at the corner of Harrison and Commissioner streets in the Joburg CBD to make their voices heard. The workers, who started striking on Friday, are part of an ongoing nationwide strike that has closed all 72 branches of the institution, formerly known as PC Training & Business College, said Phillip Machaba, the acting deputy general secretary of the Private Schools and Allied Workers Union (Prisawu), which he said represents a majority of Richfield workers. A statement by Jay Ramnund-
lall, chief executive of the college, disputed that, saying Prisawu had not achieved the 30% representation threshold of all college employees to gain access as a representative union. Although cleaning and security staff were largely represented by Prisawu, the majority of academic staff were not, he added. A college spokesperson acknowledged the strike, but said the impact was not on the scale Machaba suggested. “We don’t have any campuses shut down,” said Yuven Naidoo, the college’s chief strategy officer. “We’ve got 72 campuses across the country and not a single one of them is shut down.” Machaba denied the college’s assertions, saying there were Prisawu workers striking at all campuses. Although employers had the right to a lockout, Ramnundlall said, the college had not taken that course of action. A striker told The Star that the guards were contracted from two private security companies and prevented them from entering the building. One of the guards, who declined to give his name, confirmed that they were privately contracted by the college to “contain the situation”. The college was in the process of obtaining a court order against Prisawu members who allegedly assaulted staff and damaged property, Ramnundlall said. Some strikers had threatened minors who attend an elementary school in the same building, he added. Machaba said the strike would continue until the college’s management came to the negotiating table. However, Ram-
nundlall criticised the demands for creating “unreasonable expectations” for staff. Moses Blessed, a lecturer at another Richfield campus, compared the salaries employees are paid to “peanuts” and that of “cheap labourers”. The college also asked employees to come in on Saturdays to do unpaid “volunteer work”, he added. Samuel Ndlela, a 43-year-old cleaner at the Harrison campus, who makes R3500 a month, said his five children were his motivation for striking. “If I’m getting underpaid I can’t make my kids go to school, I can’t give my kids food, I can’t buy any clothes for my kids,” he said. “That’s why we’re on strike.” Taking it to extremes, he said that if the college did not budge, he might as well die there in front of the building. It’s a sentiment the other strikers echoed in the background, singing “Noma singafa, sisho sithi alukho uvalo” (even if we die, we say we will die fearlessly.) @benjamindin