This is despite the matter not being on the agenda during the union federation’s special central executive committee (CEC) meeting on Monday. “The matter came up when he was opening the meeting on Monday,” said National Union of Mineworkers spokesperson David Sipunzi. “Some affiliates felt aggrieved to have seen him at the birthday bash, but he manned up and he apologised for it.” And as a result, Sipunzi said Dlamini would not be facing any repercussions. “There is no need for him to be crucified because he knew he was wrong and we therefore cannot punish him after he came out and apologised,” he said. The special CEC meeting was held with the backdrop of Zuma being booed and prevented from speaking during Cosatu’s May Day celebration in Bloemfontein. Zuma was unable to address the crowd, and speeches were subsequently cancelled for the day. The SA Democratic Teachers Union, meanwhile, maintained that despite the apology being made, Dlamini’s presence at Zuma’s party was not on the agenda and was therefore not discussed. “There were three things that were discussed and that was not one of the things that were discussed,” Mugwena Maluleka told The Star. “We will not discuss it if it is not on the agenda, and Sadtu will not discuss it if it is not brought up either,” Maluleka said. Meanwhile, central to Tuesday’s media briefing regarding resolutions taken by Cosatu was the barring of Zuma from addressing Cosatu members from its events. Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali said: “The special CEC meeting ultimately resolved that, in respect of the mandate from the workers and in line with the CEC resolution for him to step down, Zuma will no longer be welcome to address Cosatu." “The one-day special central executive meeting agreed with the position of the workers that the decision to allow comrade Jacob Zuma was not consistent with our position that we no longer trusted and supported his leadership." “The meeting ultimately resolved that, going forward, in respect of the workers’ mandate and in line with the CEC resolution that he step down, President Zuma will no longer be welcome to address Cosatu activities." “This will be communicated to the ANC, including engaging on its implications for our alliance,” Ntshalintshali told reporters in Joburg after a special executive committee meeting. It was the first time in the history of Cosatu that an ANC president was prevented from addressing a May Day rally. The ANC on Tuesday responded to news of Zuma’s barring and said it had not received any formal communication. The Star