During the meeting, all opposition councillors were uncharacteristically quiet without as much as a boo or heckle, with only the DA councillors clapping quietly as mayor Herman Mashaba spoke. Mashaba lambasted the ANC for its failings over the past years, but, on two occasions, he praised and thanked the EFF for its suggestions and assistance in highlighting problems in certain areas, much to the amusement of those present. The speech focused heavily on benefits for the poor, with Mashaba saying 60% of capital expenditure would be directed at projects in traditionally poor and underserved communities. He promised to electrify informal settlements and allocate more money for cleaning and sanitation. Mashaba said the city would be focusing on early childhood development (ECD) projects, saying the target was to have an additional 6000 children in these programmes by next month. About 3800 extra ECD practitioners would be trained. Economic growth was vital, he said. Joburg had 862000 unemployed residents so it had to achieve a minimum of 5% economic growth by 2021, as opposed to the 1.6% now. Speaking about the billing problems experienced by residents, the mayor said an independent service provider was being appointed to improve data about residents. This, he said, would at the same time improve revenue collection. He noted that in March, the city collected a record R3billion, with the target being R2.6bn, promising that it would reach the R4bn mark by July. Speaking on the state of the roads, 17696 potholes were repaired in March. “There is a R5.8bn backlog in repairs and maintenance of our road infrastructure in our city,” he said. The mayor spoke out strongly on corruption, saying it would not be tolerated. The city would also soon be releasing an official housing waiting list. “The frustration of our communities lies in the fact that people have been sitting on housing lists since 1996, which remain a secret,” he said. Revitalisation of the inner city was another key area. The city was completing an analysis of all city-owned buildings with the intention of converting them into affordable, low-cost housing. Speaking on safety, the mayor said he was shocked to find that the metro police department was operating with a staff shortage of 1500 officers. An amount of R31 million had been allocated and hiring had already started. Security in council buildings was costing R360m, meaning each guard cost R16000, while the guards were getting only R4000 a month. The ANC criticised the mayor’s speech. ANC Joburg spokesperson Jolidee Matongo said Mashaba delivered his address from within a state-of-the-art ANC government-built council chamber. He accused Mashaba of dividing the people of Joburg and “possibly planting a seed of black-on-black violence experienced in the 80s and 90s”. “This is evident in the recent IDP (Integrated Development Plan) meetings where community members were forced out of public meetings, thereby denying them their constitutional right to participate in shaping the city’s plans.” Matongo criticised the cancellation of the Jozi@Work project, “practically condemning 8000 people to unemployment and preventing a further 50000 Joburgers from benefiting from the programme over the next four years”. The achievement of 5% economic growth was very ambitious and should be supported. “We have asked for the DA’s plan to grow the economy, but the plan has not been forthcoming,” Matongo added. “The fight against corruption is supported by the ANC. However, under Mashaba, Joburg has become a police state where the JMPD is used to suppress residents and abandoning their traffic management and by-law enforcement responsibilities. In the last nine months, Mashaba has been chasing corruption ghosts and we are yet to see tangible evidence,” he said. @annacox