But outside the national spotlight and to those who knew him best, he was deeply loved. “To South Africa and the world, Piet was the top cop,” Byleveld’s family said in a statement. “To us, he was more. He was the best husband, father, brother, grandfather and friend.” The celebrated detective died yesterday at the Life Wilgeheuwel Hospital in Roodepoort, succumbing to his battle with Stage 4 lung cancer. He was 67. Retired Major General Bushie Engelbrecht, who was once in charge of Byleveld, remembered him for his professionalism, especially the suit and tie he always wore. Byleveld was a man of respect and, in turn, commanded respect from others. In June 2010, Byleveld retired from his 38-year career with the South African Police Service. Engelbrecht also retired that year, and they ended up at the same private security company. A few years later, the two left to start their own endeavours. Although they drifted apart, Engelbrecht recalled how happy Byleveld was when he requested a promotion for him. Byleveld’s superiors were so impressed by his record, Engelbrecht said, that he went straight from the rank of lieutenant colonel to brigadier, skipping colonel altogether. Throughout his illustrious career, Byleveld worked on cases related to serial killers such as Moses Sithole of the ABC Murders, the Wemmer Pan killer Cedric Maake and Nasrec serial killer Lazarus Mazingane, as well as the murders of Leigh Matthews and Sheldean Human. “Criminals would remember him as the detective with the soft voice that eventually cornered them with his unique interviewing techniques,” said Lieutenant General Deliwe de Lange, the Gauteng provincial commissioner. Internationally, he assisted the FBI, the Mossad and Scotland Yard in investigations. As the SAPS national spokesperson, Major General Sally de Beer said, she interacted with Byleveld when he worked on high-profile cases that riveted the nation. She praised his tireless effort in solving cases and bringing comfort to victims’ families. Beyond his sterling record, he will be remembered for his mentorship of younger detectives and his contributions to best practices in detective work. “That is the legacy that he leaves behind, that of teaching those coming up in the ranks and through the detectives’ stream how to be committed and dedicated to solving a case,” she said. On Sunday, Engelbrecht said, he drove near the hospital where Byleveld was being treated. He hadn’t spoken much with his long-time colleague, and he thought about visiting one last time. However, he said he was told Byleveld was no longer able to talk with or recognise anyone. “I think it’s best to remember him as I last saw him,” he said. Funeral arrangements have not been announced, and the family has asked for privacy to mourn. Byleveld is survived by his second wife, Elize, who he married in 2011 after splitting from his first, Esmie. The love and admiration of the public kept him going to the end, the family said. “He will be dearly missed. Right now, life without him is unimaginable and his space will be empty.” @benjamindin