SABC 2’s Game Plan, is more than just your average game show. Hosted by renowned TV personality, Mzwandile Ngubeni, the show is an entrepreneurship and educational studio-based, reality TV game show aimed at teaching contestants and viewers business 101. “It’s a fun entrepreneur game show that gets South Africans educated about the small business world through fun and exciting games. It’s one that can be watched by all races, both young and old that are interested in starting a business. We touch on topics such as registering your business, identifying a gap in the market and many more that can assist you in lingo that you think you know,” said Ngubeni. Being a business person himself, Ngubeni said the show came at the right time for him. “Game Plan came at the right time of my life. My business Mazothe Media is three years old and the lessons of the past two years I get to re-live them on the show. All shows I have presented are in line with my purpose statement, I create work that will Inspire, educate and entertain. Game Plan does that,” Ngubeni said. The show, which airs every Thursday at 11am, is aimed at educating previously disadvantaged South Africans about the basics of entrepreneurship and starting a successful business. And it teaches the viewers that the fundamental basis of a good business is to provide a product or service that caters for the particular needs of a specific target market through various types of games, themes and quizzes on the show. Each week six contestants are grouped into two teams of three competing against each other for the title of being South Africa’s Game Plan Champion. The processes of selecting and identifying the contestants includes social media, different incubators, word of mouth in various communities and approaching tertiary institutions. The teams of young people battle it out through each round of true or false and multiple choice questions and go on to pitch a business idea to judges, Lebo Gunguluza, Chipo Mushwana and Andy Khumalo who offer advice. Thereafter winners of each episode are invited back to battle against each other. Ngubeni said through the show he has learnt that entrepreneurship is not as easy as it may seem. “Seeing contestants freeze in pitching to our judges is a moment that reminds you that all our business ideas may sounds great when we sitting with our friends around the table until you have to pitch them to future investors,” he said. With economic emancipation as its core objective, Game Plan is a platform which is fun and engaging. “We live in a country with a dynamic youth. Entrepreneurship is trending at the moment. Relevance to the viewer makes or breaks your product. In SA, government has turned its focus to township economic development. This means our people must take interest in how they can better their lives by starting their own business that will benefit their communities and their families,” Ngubeni said. *Game Plan airs on Thursday at 11am on SABC 2.