The city was forced to close some streets leading to the area around the sinkhole, which had a big impact on traffic. Three roads leading to a shopping complex have been blocked, and there is now only one way to get there. News Café manager Gerry Kanaris said that if the situation persisted, it could cost workers their jobs. Kanaris said: “Imagine you were an employee here - what would you think? You would think that I don’t have long to go before I am out of a job.” He said the situation was unfair to businesspeople. “We are paying taxes, and this is not what we are paying taxes for. I don’t care what political party is in charge; whether it’s DA or the ANC, that is not my business. My business is my business,” he said. Kanaris said the intersection had had at least three small sinkholes for a long time. He accused the city of failing to attend to them. He added that he had been told the sinkhole was 25m deep. Roads and Transport MMC Sheila Senkubuge said the sinkhole had been cordoned off as part of the traffic management plan. “That was followed by a drilling investigation by a geologist who examined the extent of the damage and repairs that need to be done,” she said, Senkubuge said there had been a number of consultations with businesses in the vicinity about the problem. She said Centurion had been prone to sinkholes over the years. “As and when they happen, we make sure they are repaired on time,” she said. However, Senkubuge added that sinkholes were not always repaired quickly due to financial constraints. She said the city team had been aware of the three smaller sinkholes, but the process to repair them had been hampered by their tight budget. Senkubuge said the repairs could cost as much as R4.5million, but it would depend on the engineering report. She said it could take four months to fix the problem, depending on the extent of the damage. Residents travelling north on Hendrik Verwoerd from the Gautrain to Lyttelton SAPS have been advised to turn off on Von Willigh and either use Lenchen Drive or Rabie Street. Those travelling south on Station Street from Lyttelton SAPS to the Gautrain must turn off in Glover Street and use Lenchen or Rabie Street. Those travelling west to east on Jean Avenue must turn off at Rabie and use Von Willigh or Glover Street. Motorists moving east to west on Jean Avenue should turn off at Lenchen Drive and use Glover or Von Willigh Street.