The industry legend, who has some of the most elite clients in the world, once transformed a castle in Ireland into a wedding venue after it hadn't been used for private purposes in decades. The extravagant nuptials, voted as the most stunning wedding of 2015 by Vogue magazine, featured an array of unique touches. These included proceedings which commenced with a picnic, a 12-minute walk by the river, rooms for guests to change in as well as an abundance of one type of flower, and candles scattered throughout the premises. “Every 'no' can be turned into a 'yes',” Cowie insisted. “Guests must feel like they are taken care of.” Leading wedding industry educational institution the SA School of Weddings, together with The Wedding Specialist, brought the now New York-based event planning extraordinaire into the country to address a packed gathering in Joburg yesterday. Cowie, who is also a lifestyle guru, is no stranger in the event-planning world, as his clientele includes the likes of Kim Kardashian West, Jennifer Aniston, Tom Cruise, Jennifer Lopez and Oprah Winfrey. His list of accolades doesn't end there as over the span of about 30 years he has also managed to write 10 best-selling books related to the industry and is a regular contributor to The Today Show in the US. Although he has produced some of the most momentous functions for some of the most prominent personalities in the world, he was happy to share insights into his whirlwind career in his home country. “It doesn't take much to get me to get back home,” he said. The passionate planner, who immigrated to the US about 30 years ago, maintained that despite his job being stressful at times, he wouldn't choose to do anything else. “I love my job, I get paid well to make other people happy.” But despite all his success, he said he worked hard to get to the top of the event-planning world and that he had learnt a few secrets along the way. Chief among these was creating "wow moments", which could range from special guests to distinctive touches and customised items. He once had R&B legend Mary J Blige do a surprise performance, had one waiter for each guest, table cloths made from flowers and even transformed a tent into a church in just six weeks. Despite the elaborate and costly nature of the events he plans, Cowie said it doesn't have to be costly. “Style is not always dependent on finances,” he said. For his niece's recent wedding in KwaZulu-Natal, he created a rustic atmosphere by using wooden chairs and reflective surfaces. The few things which he reckons set him apart from his peers are attention to detail, as he at times offered hangover kits to guests who spent a function partying the night away; customised logos; and food stations where people could receive a paired meal with a drink at the same time. He added that he also prides himself on exquisite presentations as he continues to build his brand.