This was the key finding of the World Economic Forum Africa Competitiveness Report 2017, published yesterday. According to the WEF, competitiveness was defined as the set of institutions, policies and factors that determined the level of productivity, and future prosperity, of a country. The biennial report comes at a time when growth in most of the region’s economies has been slowing despite a decade of sustained growth, and is likely to stagnate further in the absence of improvements in core conditions for competitiveness. Compounding the challenge to Africa’s leaders was a rapidly expanding population, which is set to add 450 million more to the labour force over the next two decades. Under current policies, only 100 million jobs look set to be created during this period. Africa’s young, dynamic population did, however, possess the potential to lead an economic revival in the region, backed by targeted long- and short-term structural reforms in key areas, the report found. It listed priority action areas for improved competitiveness as: Long term: Strengthening institutions was a precondition to enable faster and more effective policy implementation; failure of implementation in the past has often been attributed to weak institutions; improved infrastructure, to enable greater levels of trade and business growth; greater adoption of technology; and developing the right skills to remain competitive in a rapidly changing global economic landscape. Short term: Prioritising sector-specific reforms in labour-intensive sectors such as agri-business, construction and micro-enterprises; targeted support for vulnerable regions and/or populations in fragile countries; open trade policies to foster regional economic integration; developing value-chain links to extractive sectors to encourage diversification in resource-rich countries; and increase housing construction through investment, better urban planning and less bureaucracy. “Removing the hurdles that prevent Africa from fulfilling its competitiveness potential is the first step required to achieve more sustained economic progress and shared prosperity,” said the WEF’s Richard Samans, head of the Centre for the Global Agenda and managing board member. “To meet the aspirations of their growing youth populations, African governments are well advised to enact policies that improve levels of productivity and the business environment for trade and investment,” said the World Bank Group’s Klaus Tilmes, director of the Trade & Competitiveness Global Practice, which contributed to the report. Also included in the report are detailed competitiveness profiles of 35 African economies. The profiles provide a comprehensive summary of the drivers of competitiveness in each of the countries covered by the report and are used by policy-makers, business strategists and other key stakeholders, as well as those with an interest in the region. - ANA