However, the scenery changed in November, when two enormous gas tanks were moved onto the adjacent property. In defiance of the City of Joburg’s instructions to shut down, a company continues to operate illegally in this Midrand suburb - a situation that has greatly frustrated nearby residents who have been fighting to halt the company’s activities ever since it moved into the area. When the two gas tanks were installed in November, the pastoral team at the church were confused, said pastor Hilton Rose. They had been told that the land was being used by its new tenants for the rental and sale of agricultural equipment. By the end of November, the city issued a 30-day notice to the company to cease activities after other neighbours complained about the gas tanks. A follow-up inspection in February found that the company was still operating there. A recent visit revealed that there are two gas storage tanks, six shipping containers and at least 10 tractors on site. A representative for the company said he was not aware of any rulings related to the unauthorised use of the property. Rose said the church does not oppose the company being there if it has obtained the necessary paperwork. However, he is concerned about what the lack of transparency - the church hasn’t heard from the tenants in about two months - might mean for a community that prides itself on its surrounding nature and equestrian vibe. “Are we concerned for the neighbourhood? Yes, we are concerned because it’s a question of what’s happening, and we don’t have the answers either,” he said. “We just want to know, as I think everybody in the community wants to know, what’s going on.” This lack of transparency is a recurring theme in matters involving the company, according to the neighbours who filed complaints. Neighbours believe that the land is being leased by Sina Petroleum and Gas (Pty) Ltd. Although multiple shipping containers on the property bear that company’s name, the executive director of the company, Reza Rezaei, denied any involvement, saying Sina was only leasing the gas storage tanks. “We own the equipment but we do not have the lease agreement on the property.” However, the company’s use of the property does not comply with the zoning restrictions for that area, said James Rammala, operations manager for planning control in the city’s development planning department. The city is demanding that the company discontinue the unauthorised use of the property, which disallows the storage, displaying and sale of gas tanks, tractors and gas cylinders. Adding more confusion, an attorney is claiming to represent Sina and its directors, Hamid Ghadamian and Reza Nikkhoo, in correspondence with a resident across the street. However, Rezaei said no attorney had liaised with the neighbours on Sina’s behalf. Neither do the two directors listed work for the company, said Rezaei, who identified them as representatives of the company leasing the gas tanks from Sina. Reached for comment, Ghadamian said he was unaware of any council rulings about the illegal usage of the property and referred to the two containers as “empty.” “I don’t understand why a small plot in the middle of nowhere would be of interest to The Star!!” he wrote in an email. Although he said he does not work for Sina, Ghadamian did not respond to a further request to clarify the name of the company he works for and in what capacity. Because the company has not complied with the council’s order, a penalty tariff that quadruples the rates and taxes had been imposed, Rammala said. Lawyers were now in the process of sending a letter of demand to the company to stop its activities. If that didn’t work, there would be a notice of motion in the high court, he added. Keith Bush, who lives down the road, praised the council for acting quickly after he filed his complaint in November. However, more than five months later, the company’s failure to comply has been disheartening for the 74-year-old resident. “We followed all the correct and proper routes,” he said. “And when we think we’re getting somewhere, we find we’ve got nowhere.” @benjamindin