Early yesterday protesters took to the streets, blocking Chris Hani Road and others, while calling on human settlements MEC Paul Mashatile to address them. “He must come here since 1996 we have been ignored and we can’t carry on like this,” said one protester, who identified herself only as Lucy. “There are 20 or 30 people living in one small house with shacks and zozo huts, because the government has not kept its promises. How are we supposed to live like this?” Protester Mary Hlongwane said they could no longer tolerate “living like cattle in a pen”. “What’s made us so cross is that Paul Mashatile never came to us. His people said he would come to take a memorandum, but he never did. “When we went back to the municipal building and asked for him, they told us we’d never asked for him to come. They can’t keep making out like we are stupid,” she said. Several residents were heard shouting that they were being taken for granted and that “enough was enough”. “We want him here and if he doesn’t come we will keep on protesting. And we won’t stop until he tells us what is going on,” said another resident. Hlongwane said they planned to continue barricading streets, but were adamant not to allow it to become violent. “We don’t want criminals coming here and using this protest as an excuse for looting. The children must go to school too. “But there must be no looting. We are not going to let this become a breeding ground for crime. There are leaders who are weeding out any people they believe to be criminals,” she said. Although the protesters dispersed peacefully to allow those taking part to go to church, residents have vowed to continue the protest into the week until their demands are met. “Until he comes here so we can give him our memorandum, we are not going anywhere,” the residents vowed. Protests erupted in Diepkloof on May 19 and have continued over the past 10 days with residents burning tyres, barricading roads and engaging in running battles with the police. Last week, Mashatile’s spokesperson, Keith Khoza, called on Diepkloof residents to be patient. In a radio interview, Mashatile said that people had a right to protest, but “must not do it as if it is a fashion statement”. @Lanc_02