All these entities receive public funding and in most cases have an obligation to dispense it, or any related resources, with aplomb for public benefit, so it is expected that they will always attract negative publicity if there is any lack of proper governance on their part, or an inability to deliver on the mandate set out for them, which will always be visible in our society. The lack of good governance, oversight and accountability by many state-owned entities has a negative impact on service delivery by the government, but more concerning is the fact that the absence of good oversight by most public entities prompts the courts to intervene, as usually requested by civil society and active citizens, to help in the administration of these entities in order to ensure they achieve their mandates. The downside of all this is that the situation results in what many commentators call "judicial overreach" - a situation wherein the judiciary is forced to encroach on the functions of the other two arms of the state. If you live in South Africa today, the diet of information that we receive from the media’s menu on the performance(s) of state-owned entities and public entities is not healthy. You would swear that there is not a single state-owned entity whose board exercises proper oversight and good governance in discharging its responsibilities. We cannot blame the media for doing their job by naming and shaming those charged with the important and daunting task of serving as board members and trustees of our public entities. On the flip side, it is also imperative for the media to encourage those who are doing well in the space to continue pushing the envelope. Within this context, I went out of my way to search for those public entities that are going against the tide and are good examples of good governance. This is important to me because if there are good examples out there, it means it's possible for most of our troubled public entities to take a leaf out of the book of those exceptional ones. In my quest, I found that the National Lotteries Commission (formerly known as the National Lotteries Board) is a shining example of a public entity that is well governed. In conducting research about the NLC and the work it has done, I had a conversation with a few trustees of the NLC, including its chairperson Professor Ntshengedzeni Alfred Nevhutanda, with a view to determining their performance against their mandate as set out by the Lotteries Act. In general, I found what makes the NLC an outlier is its adherence to the general provisions and principles of good public administration as set out in section 10 of our constitution. This entity maintains a high standard of professional ethics, and an efficient, economical and effective use of resources must be promoted. For an entity tasked with disbursing so much financial resources, transparency was fostered by providing the public with timely, accessible and accurate information. The board of the NLC has noted with great concern the state of the drought in South Africa. The National Water Resource Strategy II (“NWRS 2”) published by the Department of Water and Sanitation tackles the challenges of water security and also ensuring that the country has enough water for economic growth and development priorities. The board had undertaken to intervene in this situation and proactively approved a budget to drill and equip boreholes in communities in various provinces. Another major intervention made by the NLC is in the area of early childhood development. Chapter 9 of the National Development Plan on improving education, training and innovation identifies one of the cross-cutting, interdependent and implementable themes as: “Lay a solid foundation for a long and healthy life and higher educational and scientific achievement." The statistician-general in 2014 highlighted lack of early child development as one of the contributing factors to poor results in basic and higher education. In addressing the above challenges, the board approved projects towards the construction of early child development centres in all the provinces. Finally, schools in Vuwani, Limpopo, have been in the news recently following violent protests in that community. The developments at Vuwani came as a shock to the country, with the destruction and burning of 28 schools in the area. This has created major disruption in the learning sector, especially for matriculants. The board has approved the construction of six blocks with a total of 25 classrooms for Vhafamadi Secondary School, at a cost of R25 million. Over and above these achievements, the NLC has maintained a clean audit for the first time in a long time. It can be argued, given these highlights alone, the NLC is a paragon of excellence in the public service space, and that both the board led by Nevhutanda and its executives are a group of unsung heroes and heroines who must be celebrated because their service to South Africa makes our country great. I am sure there are challenges they face, like any other organisation, but with more than 700 state-owned entities in our midst, could it be that we are focusing too much on the negatives when good stories abound?  * Keswa is a businesswoman and she writes in her personal capacity. Twitter: @lebokeswa ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Star