Some residents watched from inside their gates as the police, the Joburg metro police department vehicles and Nyalas passed through barricaded roads trying to disperse protesters. They went door-to-door in a bid to make arrests and stop rock throwers as more teargas and rubber bullets were fired towards gathering crowds. One resident, who only identified herself as Lily, said: “This protest needs to end. It has become too violent - people and police keep attacking each other and it just won’t end - innocent people are getting hurt. “A young boy who is asthmatic was hit with teargas in the face, he’s now in hospital,” she said. Other residents also watching, agreed, adding that many of those protesting were youths and criminals who didn’t represent the community. As running battles continued with the police, protesters retaliated with firecrackers and rocks. However, several residents shouted that police were “out of line” as officers responded. “We are fighting for better houses and better conditions. We started doing this peacefully and the police are the ones who made this violent,” said resident Felicia van Jaarsveld. “We were just sitting here with the children and while we were feeding them, they fired rubber bullets and threw teargas, which landed in the yard,” added another resident who, asked to remain anonymous. “We are not fighting for fun here - we are fighting for our children and their well-being,” she said. Another group watching from afar disagreed. One resident, who identified himself as Mr Jansen, said he supported the reasons for the protest but not the violence. “These drug addicts and criminals have hijacked a peaceful movement and now they are looting and causing divisions,” he said. “It’s unfair that we’ve been ignored, but the City of Joburg has heard us and we want to give them a chance,” added resident Daniel van Heerden. Earlier in the day, Ennerdale residents came out to protect several schools and clinics following threats by “criminal elements” to burn them down. Many residents condemned the situation, with the Ennerdale Stakeholders Association (ESA) distancing itself from the violence that erupted. Valerie Moses, a leader from the ESA, said residents were not involved in the protests, and they were waiting for feedback from the government following several meetings. “They are threatening to burn down the school; they also threatened to burn down the clinic. “Our community is fighting for development and housing; we cannot allow our existing infrastructure to be destroyed by criminals,” she said. Playing soccer in a side street, several Grade 9 pupils said they were about to start exams and were scared. “I haven’t been to school for three days and I’m supposed to start exams tomorrow (today), what am I supposed to do?” asked schoolboy Calvin. “These people are taking us and our education for granted. I’m really sad they’re doing this and that they want to burn our school down,” added pupil Jaco. Police said one person was arrested yesterday for throwing rocks at officers.