“Koko (granny), it’s time to wake up. You need to get ready for the journey,” she says quietly. Maphetola Rabothata slowly dresses and walks into the kitchen while Winnie prepares a pot of pap on the stove. At age 75, Rabothata  makes the hour-long trek up to her mountainside mealie field on the outskirts of Ga-Sekgopo, a small rural village in Limpopo. For hours she tends to it, making sure her crops are growing well. “It’s our source of food and income. We’ve struggled for so long with the drought and this year there was finally enough rain. The rain was late but we managed to plant. “The problem is the (army) worms that have been eating our mealies. I was worried, but most of my crops have been okay so far. Only some have been affected,” she says. Winnie had packed two lunch boxes of pap and filled two bottles of water for her to take with her to school and for her grandmother to take to the field. As Rabothata  leaves her house, white smoke rises from a small cooking fire lit in a nearby yard where the residents are also preparing for the day ahead. She places a small knapsack on her shoulder to carry her pap and water and picks up a large stick which she leans on as she makes the steep climb. “I’ve grown up here. I was born here. It was nice growing up here. “As a small child, I played and danced with my friends. Most Sundays there were cultural activities and I took part in them. That’s when we would dress in traditional clothes and dance to drums. It was wonderful,” she recalls, a large smile on her face. “My mother and father taught me how to plant and we would use cows to plough. It was not like today with the use of machines or tractors. “As a girl in those days, I didn’t go to school - it was unheard of. Only the boys were educated. The girls would stay at home and look after the men in the family,” she says. Laughing, Rabothata  remembers how her parents made a concerted effort to keep her away from the boys while she was growing up. “Until it was time for lobola to be paid, they would try their best to keep me at home and I wasn’t allowed to talk to boys often. They wanted to avoid any relationships and dating. It’s very different today,” she says, taking a deep breath as she starts the rocky walk up the mountainside. After about 20 minutes, she takes a few sips of her water and sits down. She wraps a T-shirt around her head as the sun starts to beat down. “This keeps me healthy and able to live long - all the walking is good. You look like you need this,” she jokes, looking at me. Delving into her childhood, Rabothata  says she learned to help around the house from a young age. “It was our responsibility as girls to make sure the house was clean and the food was ready for when the boys and men came in. “It’s your job to cultivate family like I cultivate my field,” she says. Asked about lobolo, she says in those days it only cost R60. “It sounds like a little bit of money now, but back then it was very expensive. Fathers didn’t give their daughters away easily. As she gets up to continue the climb, Rabothata  says the boy would come to the door and place a R20 deposit. “His elders and your elders would then meet and discuss the terms. After the meeting, your father would call you and the other young girls in the family outside and the groom was able to chose which daughter he wanted to marry. “If you agreed, you would put something important down like traditional beads and that was it. You didn’t have to agree, but most did,” she says. After a long, arduous trek, we finally make it to her field. Lifting the thorny fence carefully, we walk through to a sea of green. “I only started planting when I had children of my own,” she says as she picks up a scythe and begins her hard work. Rabothata  has two sons who are married but work in the city. However, they make an effort to visit her every month. “At the moment only Winnie is staying with me, but sometimes all four (grandchildren) come and we look after each other. They take care of me and I take care of them,” she says, smiling. As the sun’s heat increases, she slows down to take a sip of water. She then walks to each corn stalk to check on them. “This one has worms. Come and see. They’ve eaten the mealie stalks,” she says, pointing inside to several large Fall Armyworms. “I’ll have to dig it out. I’ve found if I take away the stalk with the worm and destroy it, the other plants are okay and the worms don’t get to them.” During the day, she receives several visitors from neighbouring maize farm. They talk, laugh and eat together. As they leave, a farmer named Johannes pours some of his water into her nearly empty bottle. “When the next visitor comes, I will give water to them so they don’t run out either,” she says. After a long day, 4pm arrives and it’s time to go. Setting aside her farm tools under a large tree, she says everyone in the farming area trusts each other. “No one will steal. It will be fine. The only things we worry about here are the jackals or animals that will eat our mealies. No one here steals. It’s not like in the city,” says Rabothata . After an easier trek down the mountain that includes some slipping and sliding, we make it to the main dirt road and finally back to her home. The sound of thunder rumbles in the distance, but Rabothata  is sure the rain won’t reach the village. As we walk through the gate, Winnie is sitting on the stoep doing her homework. She greets her grandmother and dashes inside quickly. When she returns, it is with a bucket in one hand and a large glass of water in another. Rabothata says she does beading as a recreational pastime. “I’m one of the main beaders in the village. I make beads for weddings for the bride and groom to wear around their heads and necks, bracelets and arm bands for special or traditional occasions,” she says as she leans against a concrete step for back support. “My mother taught me how to do it when I was very young and I always loved it. She said I had a natural talent, that it came easily for me when I made them,” Rabothata  adds. As evening arrives, Rabothata  says she could not think of living anywhere other than in Ga-Sekgopo. “It’s a good lifestyle. It’s peaceful and I love the people here. “We may not have much money and many of us here struggle, but we are rich in people who care about us. “The love and care we have for each other, as a community, makes us richer than anyone could ever be - that’s what it means to live. @Lanc_02