City Power yesterday offered customers who have tampered with their electricity meters an opportunity to normalise their meters - free of charge. The amnesty period ends on June 30. Affected customers are encouraged to register the matter with the utility’s head office at 40 Heronmere Road, Reuven or at their nearest customer service centre. “Registering the tampered meter during this amnesty period helps the customer to avoid penalties such as reconnection fees and average monthly consumption charges for the period the meter was not vending; that is when no electricity was purchased. “Once this is done, City Power technicians will come out to normalise the meter free of charge” said member of the mayoral committee for infrastructure, environment and services Nico de Jager. To register for amnesty, customers must bring the following documents: City of Joburg rates and taxes statement not longer than three months old; Copy of green barcoded identity document; Stand number; and Meter number. De Jager said meter tampering constituted fraud and may result in criminal charges. Customers would be held liable and no mercy would be shown to those found to have tampered with their meters after June 30 when the amnesty period ends. This was clearly an opportunity not to be missed, he added. Meter tampering is any action resulting in the breaking of a seal; the opening, adjustment or removal of a meter; bypassing a meter; opening of a meter box; or interfering with the meter or municipal wiring, piping or other installations in any manner. Manifestation of meter tampering include the following categories: Bypassed meters; Faulty meters; Faulty keypad (customer interactive unit); No meters - customer connected straight through; Stolen meters; Meters bought illegally from electrical contractors/technicians, and Illegally connected meters. “This presents such a golden opportunity to rectify wrongdoing, no questions asked, then customers can resume normal purchasing of electricity. “By coming to register tampered meters, customers will be literally saving a minimum amount of R11230 which is an amount reached by adding a reconnection fee and average monthly consumption fee for a low-income household,” De Jager said. “Failing which, not only will criminal charges be brought against them, but the meter will be disconnected and removed and a new meter installed after payment of a considerable amount of money. 
The aforementioned amount increases if a customer uses more electricity.” @annacox