A farmhouse was torched, a photographer was attacked and a confrontation erupted between the protesters and farmers. A group of farmers attacked a journalist after a farmhouse was looted and torched. Later, protesters heading home from the court were confronted by farmers who pointed firearms at them. The police had to intervene to separate the two groups. Residents of Tlhabologang were not happy that Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte were granted R5000 bail each at the Coligny Magistrate’s Court. “Gentlemen, your application (for bail) is successful. You will be released on R5000 bail each. If your pay the bail money you must stay at the alternative  addresses you give and you must hand over your passports to the investigating officer,” said magistrate Makgaola Foso. Foso said there was no evidence that Doorewaard, 26, and Schutte, 34, would not stand trial. They are accused of killing Matlhomola Jonas Mosweu, 16, of the Scotland informal settlement in Coligny, on April 20. He pointed out that the two had no previous convictions and no pending cases. “The accused were born in Coligny, they are gainfully employed and have assets in Coligny,” Foso said. The objective of bail was to secure the attendance of the accused during the trial, he noted. The two alleged they caught the teenager stealing sunflowers at their employer’s field near the informal settlement. They say they put him in the back of a van and intended to hand him over to police, but he jumped out of the van 3km away from the town and suffered neck injuries. However, an eyewitness told the police that Matlhomola was thrown out of the moving van. He died later on his way to hospital. Matlhomola’s father, Sakkie Dingake, 45, said he was upset that the accused were granted bail. “I am not happy, ngwanaka ena (what about my son)? I buried him yesterday (Sunday). Ga ba re lebelle ba lebella makgoa (The court do not consider us, they only consider the whites),” he said with teary eyes, before he was whisked away. Dingake was so overcome with emotion that he had to be admitted to a local clinic. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson in North West, Frank Lesenyego, said they respected the court’s ruling but were disappointed that it did not consider the State’s submission. The crowd that had been protesting in front of the court burst into war songs marching down Voortrekker Street, saying they were going to set alight a sunflower crop field nearby. A police helicopter monitored the situation from the sky while a large police contingent maintained order in the central business district. The two accused are expected back in court on June 26. - ANA