Then MTV Base is looking for you. The music and entertainment broadcaster will tour major cities in the country in the hopes of finding their next on-air talent. The chosen one will follow in the footsteps of MTV Base alumni including Sizwe Dhlomo, Vanessa Mdee, San-
dile Ntshingila, Ehizojie “Ehiz” Okoeguale, Nomuzi Mabena and Fikile “Fix” Moeti. Monde Twala, vice-president for BET, Youth and Music, said the MTV Base platform could boost an aspiring talent’s career. “We are in the business of turning fledgling talent into on-screen superstars and we’re always looking for more,” he said. In a bid to find a new presenter, MTV Base, in partnership with Breezer, will conduct auditions in Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban and Port Elizabeth. Twala noted that the expert panellists, who will judge
the applicants, were looking to find talent that “lives life in colour”. The successful candidate will be awarded a 12-month contract as an ambassador for the network. He or she will also stand a chance to host MTV Base shows and interview some of the biggest music stars in the world at international awards shows such as the Video Music Awards, European Music Awards and the MTV Africa Music Awards. Twala added: “They are expected to have a passion for global and African youth culture and music, and must be authentic and ‘live life in colour’, just like the network’s audience.” The search for the new MTV Base presenter will start on Saturday, and will continue for the whole of June. The winner is expected to be announced at the end of July. Aspiring presenters are urged to audition for the MTV Base VJ Search, as Twala maintains that it is an unmissable opportunity. “MTV Base VJ Search provides an amazing opportunity for young and aspirant talent to be part of the MTV Africa family,” he said. “We encourage everyone to heed the call and show up in droves in this national drive to open up the industry and discover the next Sizwe, Sandile or Nomuzi Mabena.” Dhlomo, who was the MTV Base VJ Search inaugural winner, said it had catapulted his career. “Winning the first MTV Base VJ Search transformed my life overnight, from the ordinary to the extraordinary, “It gave me the opportunity for a wonderful and challenging career in media and the entertainment industry.” Dhlomo has gone on to host various shows on MTV Base, and holds down two radio shows, on 947 and 702. Current winner Ntshingila echoed Dhlomo’s sentiments and said the MTV Base job had seen him being exposed to a range of opportunities. “Winning MTV Base VJ Search opened many doors for me. It changed my life because it granted me the opportunity to meet people I admired in the music and television business. “It also gave me the right platform to propel my dreams in other ventures that relate to the entertainment business,” he said. Ntshingila has worked with big fashion brands and has travelled the globe representing the brand. Auditions for the MTV Base VJ search will be held on these dates at various venues: June 3: Zone 6 Venue, Soweto. June 10: Olive Convention Centre, Durban. June 17: Belmont Square, Cape Town. June 24: The Beach Hotel, Port Elizabeth. Registration for the MTV Base VJ Search auditions starts from 8am at each venue and applicants are encouraged to be on-site early as auditions will take place on a first-come, first-served basis. Applicants must be South African residents between the ages of 18 and 25 and should be fluent in English. Previous presenting or TV experience is not required. Applicants must bring a valid identity document and be available to participate in the elimination phases of the competition.  For full terms and conditions, to download the audition script and to view online submissions, visit www.mtvbase.com and follow the link to the MTV Base VJ Search microsite.  To upload a video entry, please upload a 90-second video clip (.m4v, .mp4 format) to www.mtvbase.com Alternatively, post your audition video (or a link to it) to your social media account (Instagram, Facebook, Google+ or Twitter or all the above) using the hashtag #MTVBaseVJSearch.