Yesterday morning, scientists revealed that our most recently discovered relative, Homo naledi was living between 335000 and 236000 years ago. The date came as a surprise to academics, as it placed Homo naledi on the African landscape at a time when modern humans were beginning to evolve modern traits. They also revealed the discovery of a second chamber in the Rising Star Cave system where Homo naledi was first discovered in 2013. This chamber has also produced one of the most complete hominid skeletons and was revealed to the world at Maropeng yesterday. It is a discovery that the leader of the team of international scientists, Professor Lee Berger, of Wits University, says could turn our understanding of human origins at that time upside down. But now that the date has been revealed to the scientific community, the next step is to find out more about the hominid, which had a gorilla-sized brain. “It’s not over yet,” Berger told the audience at Maropeng. Berger said they had already identified other sites that possibly contain Homo naledi remains. The scientists have tried to extract DNA from Homo naledi, but have so far not been successful. “But we will definitely keep on trying,” said Berger. The scientists also plan to extend their search across the continent and scour existing fossil collections to see if they can find evidence of Homo naledi. The discovery of tools, say scientists outside of the study, would be what will influence the importance of the hominid to understanding early human evolution. Some have expressed doubts that it wasn’t making tools. “If this hominid was a stone tool maker, then it seems almost impossible to me that no stone tools made it into the caves with them,” said Dr Curtis Marean, an archaeologist at Arizona State University in the US. Professor Paul Dirks of James Cook University in Australia yesterday explained that they had come to the date for Homo naledi by using several different techniques. Marean, who has seen the paper, agreed with the dates suggested for Homo naledi. But it is the discovery of the new chamber, which has been named Lesedi, that the team believe adds further support for their controversial hypothesis that Homo naledi was disposing its dead in the cave. “There is no carnivore damage, there is no nothing; it is a mirror situation to the other chamber. Do I think it adds tremendous strength to the idea that Homo naledi was deliberately going into these chambers to dispose of its dead - yes,” said Berger. Palaeoanthropologist Professor Chris Stringer, of the Natural History Museum in London, said this ritualistic behaviour would be too complex for an animal with such a small brain. But while the scientists continue to search for Homo naledi, visitors to Maropeng will be able to see Neo, the name given to a skeleton that was exhumed in the Lesedi chamber, on display from May 25 . 