There were fears that failure to grant Cosatu affiliates their wish to be addressed by Ramaphosa could lead to ANC leaders being booed in the same manner Zuma was on May Day in Bloemfontein. Yesterday, Cosatu president S’dumo Dlamini told The Star the union federation had written to the ANC explaining why it did not want Zuma to address its activities. “The letter was prepared by the special central executive committee (CEC) and sent to the ANC,” he said. He was speaking on the sidelines of the second day of the meeting at the St George’s Hotel in Irene, near Pretoria. Last week, a Cosatu affiliate, the Communication Workers Union, warned the ANC that it would be undermining the workers if it failed to deploy Ramaphosa as per their wish. A founding general secretary of the National Union of Mineworkers, Ramaphosa received a hero’s welcome, with delegates breaking into a song le utlwile taba tse monate, hore Zuma wa tsamaya, ha tsamaye. (Have you heard the good news that Zuma is going, let him go.) In his address, Ramaphosa warned against the concept of radical economic transformation being used to hide the looting of the state purse for the benefit of families and groupings. Radical economic transformation and the fight against “white monopoly capital” have been the war cry of Zuma and his supporters. But Ramaphosa warned that the concept should not be used “to dupe our people and deceive them and make empty promises”. “The ANC must be truthful and straight, and when it speaks it must speak about what is attainable and not make empty promises to our people. Sometimes when you listen to it (the concept), you get (an idea that) there’s a hidden agenda. “It can’t simply be reckless rhetoric and empty promises intended to mask the plunder of our natural resources.” Ramaphosa said the ANC national executive committee’s decision to support the establishment of a judicial commission into state capture should be welcomed. The terms of reference for such an inquiry needed to allow for a “thorough, in-depth investigation of the extent of undue outside influence - from whatever quarter - on the institutions of the state”. On the 2019 national elections, Ramaphosa said the alliance needed to wake up and look at everything that they did to ensure they won decisively. He told Cosatu that the ANC belonged to them and must be concerned about its internal affairs. “Nobody must be told to shut  up Cosatu must claim its right to be consulted in decision-making.”