Henri van Breda, aged 22, has been charged with the murders of his mother, father and brother at their family home on the secure estate in Stellenbosch in January 2015. His sister Marli, who was 16 at the time, survived the attack. Van Breda has pleaded not guilty to three charges of murder, one of attempted murder, as well as defeating the ends of justice. Security manager Marcia Rossouw told the court that while there had been four activations on the night of the murders, they were not “true alarms”, and could be explained by an electricity dip. Rossouw, who has been working at the upmarket estate since February 2014, testified that when she started, improvements to security needed to be made. The electric fence was upgraded and extra cameras were installed. Rossouw said one camera could turn 360º and another could zoom in from 800m. Cameras were at all the strategic points and gates, while an infra-red camera pointed towards the river. She said the estate had two security routes, one inside the estate and the other along the perimeter. Patrols that night had been completed as required. The Van Breda house is in the middle of the estate. The R44 road runs past the estate, while the Protea hotel, two farms, an airfield and a municipal field are adjacent, she testified. Rossouw said she had found out about the incident when a police officer sped up to the gate. She “immediately requested a security officer to check every centimetre of the fence to check if there had been any signs of entry”. She also requested camera reports. Security on the estate was tight and homeowners could only enter the estate with their access cards. She said sometimes homeowners would let others use their access cards, “but this practice was not allowed”. On the night of the murders, 18 people came in and out of the three gates to the estate. All had had access cards. “Residents would report noises or anything out of the ordinary, but there was nothing on the night of attacks,” she said. Rossouw said there was nothing in their records that night to indicate anything suspicious. Defence advocate Pieter Botha was able to pick some holes in the security system, however, and managed to get Rossouw to make several concessions during cross-examination. Activations to the alarm system can be seen in a control room in Parow, after which a security officer is informed and checks made, and the system is reset once the issue has been resolved. Botha argued that if a branch was placed on the fence and the alarm activated, a person could climb over while the patrol officer was on the way and until the alarm was deactivated. Rossouw conceded it would be possible to gain access this way, but a camera would have picked up if a person had breached the fence. Judge Siraj Desai asked if there was a possibility a tunnel could be dug under the fence, but Rossouw said there was no evidence of that, no footprints, broken bushes or signs of a hole. The trial continues. - ANA