The handover of the cheque took place at the Nelson Mandela statue on Nelson Mandela Square in Sandton on Wednesday. The Nelson Mandela Children's Hospital is a new specialist paediatric referral hospital located in Parktown, and is set to receive its first patients next month. The hospital's communications and fund-rasing officer, Vuyo Lutseke, expressed how appreciative they were, as the hospital was funded by donors. “Everything we have done has been through the help of donors and it’s encouraging that people still believe in Madiba’s dream,” she said. The money that Cianfanelli donated was royalties from his partnership with The Scoin Shop and The South African Gold Coin Exchange. Cianfanelli collaborated with The South African Gold Coin Exchange and its retail division, The Scoin Shop, to produce the gold medallion's feature of the famous bust of Mandela, which has been on every Mandela medallion. The medallion has been issued by The Scoin Shop and The South African Coin Exchange since 2005. Alan Demby, the chief executive of The South African Gold Coin Exchange and The Scoin Shop, said they were thrilled with the “amazing initiative”. “We believe that the Nelson Mandela Children’s Hospital will continue to help those most in need: the children of South Africa.” Cianfanelli graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Fine Arts from Wits University, and has worked on a number of large-scale art installations in South Africa and abroad. He was a member of the design team for Freedom Park in Pretoria, which brought to life the country's national monument to freedom. He is also the artist behind the fascinating sculpture at the Nelson Mandela capture site in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands. He has held seven solo exhibitions and his work has been exhibited in many  group exhibitions. Cianfanelli told The Star that it has been an honour to be able to give back in that way and that South Africans should find ways of giving back more. “There are so many ways you can help people. I wanted to contribute to something that Mandela wished for himself, so that is when I thought to donate the money to the hospital,” said Cianfanelli. He added that it was a symbolic gesture and hoped that it made a difference.