It’s no secret that in every couple one person is more in love than the other, and a revealing new study has exposed a barometer to measure the level of affection. The sexy new study has revealed that the giving and receiving of oral sex in a relationship clearly shows who is more in love. The study, conducted by VictoriaMilan took the opinion of 9 107 of its active male and female members to find out how important oral sex is in a relationship, and who’s giving and who’s taking it the most. Performing oral sex has long been a sign of intimacy and trust between lovers and the importance of oral sex in a relationship hasn’t wavered. 72 percent of women and 85 percent of men say they think oral sex has a place in every bedroom and the performance of it shouldn’t taper off as the years go on. Lovers of oral sex can rejoice – the majority of people – almost three-quarters of both genders – say they enjoy performing oral sex. That’s 77 percent of women and 72 percent of men. Not surprisingly, when it comes to receiving the approval rating soars. 89 percent of women and 94 percent of men are big fans of receiving oral pleasure. When it comes to having an affair, oral sex needs to be on the menu. Absence of it is a deal breaker according to 65 percent of women and 68 percent of men who say they would end an affair if they weren’t receiving the licking and sucking they so desire. For those out there who are experts at giving oral sex but aren’t great at much else in the bedroom or don’t have a great physique, they’re in luck. 57 percent of ladies and 66 percent of gents say they’d stay put to continue receiving the exceptional oral pleasure. Founder and CEO of Victoria Milan, Sigurd Vedal, said that oral sex has long been known as an act of ultimate intimacy, desire and trust. “When you’re desperately in love with someone, your desire is so strong you want to eat them, taste them, consume every part of them. Out of love, you will continually perform oral sex. It’s a sign of love, desire and admiration. “If your partner is lying back and enjoying the act but only reciprocates every so often, you can safely say you’re more in love with them than they are with you – and they are definitely enjoying the ride,” Vedal said.