Mabala Noise, in association with MTV Base, BET Africa, YFM and Gagasi FM , invited the international hip hop  and trap artists, Migos, to perform live in South Africa for the first time over the weekend. The trio successfully started their SA  tour in Durban but trouble started in Joburg. Friends Tlotlego Kobue, 20, Kevin Nteo, 19, and Rori Masango, 20, told The Star that it was “wack” that they had to wait for more than a hour for opening acts to perform. “Firstly, we arrived at 6pm and it took us an hour to get inside. They ran out of tags and we are here and no one has performed. Like what's going on,” Nteo said. “We paid R800, it doesn't make sense.” “It's c*** . I'm trying to get my Migos on.” During the highly publicised concert, someone in the audience said that there was an apparent stampede on the right-hand side of the stage. The crowd was restless after waiting for more than two hours and started throwing cups. MC of the night Khanyi Mbau tried to control the situation by reprimanding the crowd. “Throwing things on stage delays the concert further,” said Mbau. Migos fans were promised performances by Gigi Lamanye, AKA, Babes Wodumo, Riky Rick and Nasty C.  Hip hop lovers were treated  to performances by Riky Rick and Nasty C who performed two hours apart.  The men of the moment Migos arrived and performed for less than 30 minutes, much to the chagrin of local fans. On Twitter, @_portiamalatji said: “The #MigosCultureTour wasn’t worth it...” and “when you realize that you bought a ticket worth R750 for a f**ked up concert instead of buying food in Res #MigosCultureTour” said @IamLeeCore. The group, formed in 2009, comprises Quavo (born Quavious Keyate Marshall), Takeoff (born Kirshnik Khari Ball) and Offset (born Kiari Kendrell Cephus) from Georgia, US. The three members are related and were raised together; Quavo is Takeoff’s uncle, and Offset is Quavo’s cousin. Migos have taken the hip hop world by storm since 2013 with their hit single Versace, following by Look at My Dab, which led to an international dance sensation in 2015. Their breakthrough international party anthem / mega-hit was Bad and Boujee with over 700 million plays on YouTube. Migos were recently nominated for the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards for Single of the Year, Best Collabo Duo or Group. The promoters had not  responded to queries about delays at the time of publication.