He released new music which has topped the charts and performed at some of the best local and international events. Now, the local house music DJ, whose real name is Themba Nkosi, has achieved another accolade. He will represent the country at this year’s Amsterdam Dance Event (ADE). The annual event is set to take place for five days, from today until Sunday. The European electronic music marathon is a major gathering where some of the best musicians and role players in the industry are expected to attend. “Arguably the best event of its kind, ADE connects people from all ends of the global electronic music community, with a programme of panels, presentations and networking events tailored for artists as well as industry professionals,” the DJ said. ADE gives more than 7000 delegates from all over the world the opportunity to network and exchange ideas through daytime conferences, festivals and a massive music playground at night.  Nkosi said while he had played in the country and several other places in Europe before, it would be his first appearance at ADE and he was thrilled at the opportunity to show the world what South Africa had to offer. “Although I’ve played in the Netherlands before, it’s my first time attending the Amsterdam Dance Event.” During his time at the
musical festival, the Mpuma-
langa-born DJ and producer will play at four venues. This includes at Cut Throat, The Curtain Club, Jack’s Juice and Kitchen for AfroStream presents Afrotura Invites. He will also make an appearance at Mo Black Base, taking place at The Bulldog Hotel. “Besides the networking and playing four shows, I’m super excited about the prospects of continuously growing the Euphonik brand of music beyond our borders and showcasing our music.” This is not the first major musical event that DJ Euphonik has played at in recent months. In May, he had the crowd on their feet at the International Music Summit  in Ibiza, Spain, arguably the party capital of the world. He also concluded a successful trip to Miami in March where he rubbed shoulders with some of the biggest celebrities, including US rappers Ty Dolla Sign and P. Diddy and socialite Paris Hilton.