ANC provincial spokesperson Motaletale Modiba said yesterday they did not want to speculate about the matter or protect Mahlangu from facing the arbitration commission headed by retired judge Dikgang Moseneke. “We don’t want to be drawn into where she is. All our correspondence with her was that she asked for leave of absence from provincial structures, and it was granted. “When we enquired with her, our questions were around her availability to appear before the arbitration. She has informed us that she has no problems with appearing.” Modiba said it was important for Mahlangu to appear and give her side of the story so that families could find closure. He said the region never said where Mahlangu was studying or where she was. Last week, the arbitration hearing heard that Mahlangu was writing exams, and she could come to give representations only when she finished. It was believed she was writing the exams at the London School of Economics, but the institution has said she's not enrolled there. “We have never disclosed that information. Our primary concern is that the former MEC of health makes representation so the full story of what transpired can be known. This is the only way families will find closure and have a fair arbitration process,” Modiba said. Mahlangu has indicated she can appear before the arbitration only between January 29 and 31. Meanwhile, an NGO director yesterday admitted she had continued to draw social grants even after psychiatric patients had died. Anchor Home for the Intellectually Impaired director Dorothy Franks said “I couldn’t help it,” when asked whether she had continued to receive a R1500 disability grant for each patient. She received social security grants for 29 patients and a R150000 a month fee from the Gauteng Health Department. Franks said she used the grant money to buy toiletries and sweaters for patients. Despite the centre being shut down in October last year after a damning report by Health Ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba, Franks was paid at least R600000 for another four months. Asked why, she said: “I had removed myself from the premises but I still had staff who needed to be paid.” Patients accommodated at Anchor Home in Cullinan are some of the patients who were moved from the Life Esidimeni facilities as part of the Gauteng Health Department's cost-cutting measures. Five patients died in the space of three months at Anchor Home. Meant to care for intellectually impaired minors, it had 79 patients. Other than receiving grants for patients who had already died, Franks also admitted she was not qualified to work with psychiatric patients. Before working at Anchor Home, she used to work as a financial credit controller. She admitted she knew someone in the provincial Health Department’s finance division but didn’t elaborate on the relationship. Moseneke asked: “Many many people died in your care in a short space of time. Why did you continue to do so?” Franks replied: “I was looking after these patients because I really cared for them. It was really not about the money. I did it because they asked me.” The hearing continues next week.