A number of people have since come forward and told The Star of their own ordeal allegedly at the hands of the Red Ants. Mzwakhe Tshabalala, 34, from Vlakfontein said he is a victim of the security company that is mostly enlisted to enforce evictions at illegal land and building occupations. “The Red Ants are cruel and tsotsis and they have no mercy,” said Tshabalala. A visibly injured Tshabalala claims he was attacked by the Red Ants on September 22 when he walked past an eviction. He was left with a swollen eye and body bruises. On the same day,  Bongani Shongwe, 45,  said he was on his way to the shops when he was also allegedly attacked by a Red Ant group despite having a hearing disability.  The deaf man was shot in the face with rubber bullets.  A still bandaged Shongwe said he opened a case against the the Red Ants but nothing was done. Police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele confirmed the case. Makhubele  last month also said two men were killed during an eviction carried out by Red Ants in Lenasia South. “Someone was shot dead and another was beaten to death, allegedly by the Red Ants,” Makhubele was quoted as saying. While Shongwe and Tshabalala survived, Pule Kopela, 35, from Zakariyya Park was not so lucky. According to his sister Matshidiso Kopela, the police did not inform the family that her brother was dead.  She claims Kopela was shot three times with rubber bullets from close range and died on the spot. A week after Kopela was killed, Mpho Mira from Sicelo informal settlement in Midvaal was also allegedly brutally murdered by four Red Ants officers. His sister Sarah Motloung said she witnessed this from a bridge. Captain Johannes Motsiri confirmed the case and said no arrests had been made yet. Johan Bosch, Red Ants chief executive, declined to comment on the allegations but promised to institute an investigation. “I want to conduct my own investigations and only then can I fully respond,” he said. Motloung said Midvaal Mayor Bongani Baloyi promised to assist the family with her brother's burial but has now made what amounts to an about-turn. She said  Baloyi said he would give them only R5000 following the death of her brother. “You can't even bury a dog with R5000,” said a fuming Motloung. Baloyi said the family gave a R20000 funeral expenses' quotation  and he informed them the municipality would cover the burial costs and give them R5000 cash. A distraught woman from Unaville, Lenasia South who is rebuilding her demolished shack accused the Red Ants of theft during evictions. “They  stole my clothes and pots and broke some of my furniture with a crowbar. I returned to the only place I know simply because I have nowhere else to go,” she said. While her children have had to live with friends, the woman said she still has nightmares about the “violent eviction” of her family. Luyanda Mfeka, Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba’s spokesperson, said Red Ants were deployed by the Sheriff of the Court. Mfeka said: “Following the invasion of unoccupied land in Unaville, I have established an independent task team which will investigate allegations of political interference behind recent illegal invasions within the City.” He said  a task team has been established to investigate the violence and political interference in the Unaville evictions. A former Red Ants employee confirmed the violence  when he said “terrible working conditions” forced them to steal from people during evictions. The man who worked for the company that carries out evictions claims workers are forced to live in squalor on a farm owned by their employer, sleeping on a hard concrete floor. The 25-year-old who declined to be named said he decided to leave the company because of the escalation of violence during evictions. He worked for the Red Ants between 2010 and 2013.  At the time, the workers earned R80 a day and now they allegedly take home about  R100. The man said in addition to doing evictions, the "security officers" are forced to work on the company farm in Eikenhof. “These people hire us poor people and as soon as we get to an eviction job, we steal items like televisions, clothes, phones, money and anything else we can get our hands on. We are well aware of the job we need to do when we get to the flat or area we need to evict, but it does not end well because some people end up seriously injured and others even die,” he said. The man said that to be employed as a Red Ant officer, one had to live on the company farm. “We were not given breakfast. They gave us lunch, which was always a loaf of bread, a tin of beans and a litre of Mageu for two workers.” Their other meal would always be pap and meat for dinner,  he said. At the farm, he said, they were not provided with beds or blankets and  slept on the floor. Red Ants’ Bosch promised to invite the The Star to his farm when he concludes his probe into the allegations of the shocking working conditions. Department of Labour spokesperson Sithembile Tshwete said  the Red Ants' alleged working conditions were in breach of the Occupational Health and Safety standards. “Those conditions of 20 workers sleeping in one room on the floor is hazardous more than anything,” he said. Tshwete said the department's sectoral determination for the wages of security industry personnel states the highest salary for a private security officer for 48 hours is R4 474 and the lowest rate is R3 792. He said R100 a day was unacceptable.