After eight weeks of the show Famous Last Words, where celebrities and comedians teamed up and stepped into each other’s worlds, the pairs were ready to give their first live comedic sets in front of a live audience. Comedy Central VIMN Africa vice-president Dillon Khan said the aim was to show an audience a side of the comedians away from the stage, and give them a glimpse of their personalities. First up was the duo John Vlismas and Khanyi Mbau. Vlismas got the ball rolling with his energy and blunt jokes that had everyone laughing. Ntsiki Mazwai: I was also raped by Brickz #BreakTheSilence As a comedian would, he had no mercy and picked on anyone who gave him a side glance. He warmed the audience with his set and almost set the bar too high for Mbau. But true to her form, Mbau can adapt to anything. Dressed down in a pink tracksuit and cap, she used her publicised life-force, the old Lamborghini days and her much-talked about skincare regime to her advantage. Mbau was able to laugh at herself and made it easy for the audience to appreciate her set. Comic twist to celebrity showcase Once the first team was done, it seemed the ice would be broken for the other teams, but nerves definitely got to most of the celebrities. Comedian Mpho Popps had the audience in stitches when he came onto the stage. He was hilarious but it seemed like you had to be part of an inside joke to get the set of his mentee, actor Robert Whitehead. Mark Williams, whose mentor was Joey Rasdien, used his soccer days and life growing up in Lavender Hill, Cape Town, as material for his five-minute set. What endeared him to the audience was the fact he used the platform as a chance to tell his stories. It was like he was just having a chat with friends. Nina Hastie chose to roast her fellow Pretorians, while her mentee Kuli Roberts spoke on her upbringing and pettiness. Casper de Vries attempted to rap like his trainee Proverb. Needless to say his attempt was met with laughter. When Proverb came on stage, he joked about his Idols SA colleagues and how the rap game had changed. Rob van Vuuren’s mannerisms when he tells his jokes are always funny and he had the audience giggling throughout his set as he introduced his mentee, chef Benny Masekwameng. The chef’s set wasn’t great but his smile lit up the room. One of the highlights of the show was when one of the Smile Foundation beneficiaries, Sevi du Preez, came to tell his story. The 23-year-old has been through countless operations to get a smile and was one of the first people to get the life-changing surgery. All the proceeds from the event will be donated to the Smile Foundation. * To hear what got the audience laughing nonstop, and which other celebs and comics took the stage, catch the stand-up show on Channel 122 on October 16 at 9pm. @jasongoliath chatting about the @comedycentral #FamousLastWords experience with gorgeous @iamjeannied @ComedyCentralAF @iol_lifestyle @masegorefilwe_ A post shared by Kedibone Modise (@kedi_modise) on Oct 4, 2017 at 11:54am PDT  mane_mpi 