The young woman, whose name is known to The Star, allegedly jumped off the sixth floor of South Point residence in Juta Street in full view of other students. It is understood she was on a ledge of the building for more than two hours before jumping. Social media was buzzing after the second-year Wits student jumped off the building. Some witnesses claimed that apparently drunk Braamfontein party-goers had screamed at her to “jump”. On Twitter, @_Hellen_N wrote: “K--- died because when she needed love she was given hate, when she needed saving she was encouraged to succumb to death #BraamSuicide.” The family of the young woman yesterday declined to comment. A family member said: “We were given strict instructions at home not to give out any statements. It was said that there will come a time when
the family will open up and answer any questions the media may have. I hope you understand and can respect those wishes.” However, a close friend of the Wits student told The Star that her “pal” was “ill”. “She had depression. I can’t go into detail about it but she was crying on the inside and smiling on the outside. She had serious depression. It was bad,” she said. “I don’t know how to feel. I am not in Braamfontein at the moment. I found out this morning. I was shocked and have been crying. I’m even afraid of going back to Braamfontein because I can’t go back into that environment now.” Another friend described her last moments with the deceased as being ones filled with laughter. She said: “The last time I saw her was on the night she died at around 6pm. I saw her at the traffic light with her best friend, and we laughed. I can’t remember what we were talking about, but we laughed. And she was just being herself.” The distraught friend told The Star that her friend was a bubbly person, always trying to uplift other people. “She was a big feminist. We would have conversations on woman power and respect. She was a big Black Consciousness person. Very opinionated, and it sometimes came off as aggressive, but you know that it was her opinion. “She never held back on her opinion. She never pretended. She had the biggest smile every time I saw her,” she said. Wits University released a statement that the institution was saddened by the passing of one of its students. University spokesperson Shirona Patel said: “The university is saddened by the tragic death of one of our students, and our deepest sympathies are extended to the family and friends of the student and those who knew her well. “It is always heart-wrenching to lose a young life, and during this difficult period we pray for solace for those who knew her well.” Patel added that the dean of students was in contact with the family and would continue liaising with them, and that the matter was also under investigation by the police. Dr Shaheda Omar of the TBF (previously Teddy Bear Clinic), an NGO established in 1986 to provide child protection services, told The Star it was difficult to speculate what the contributing factors leading to the death of the student might have been. “Perhaps in her situation she just felt that there was no way out in escaping life and a feeling of hopelessness.”