Although just eight years old, the rhino, named Thabo, already weighs more than
2 tons. The dust lifted as Thabo barrelled down the road towards two game-viewing vehicles ferrying members of the Chinese Consulate in Durban and the South African KwaZulu-Natal Chinese community. But when Thabo reached the vehicle he suddenly stopped, relaxed and allowed them to pet him. Ruowen Wang was so excited, she got her father Jianzhou Wang, consul-
general of China in Durban, to take a photo of her hand afterwards and vowed not to wash it. “I’m so lucky I got to feel it, it’s an unforgettable memory. I was always told when a rhino is charging, it’s mad and angry, so I was very afraid, but when it came over it suddenly stopped and calmed down.” She couldn’t believe the gentle giant allowed the guests to touch it. The 16-year-old is an avid nature lover, and the experience reinforced her belief that rhinos should be “protected, respected and loved”. With the rate at which rhinos are killed for their horns, extinction is a real threat. “I feel extremely sad about it, I couldn’t even imagine that - not only for the rhino, but for any animal. I don’t wish my descendents wouldn’t get to see any of these beautiful creatures,” said Ruowen. Thula Thula head ranger Andrew Murgatroyd said this was typical behaviour from Thabo, who enjoys human contact. “He was hand-reared from a few months old. We are trying to discourage it, but it’s so difficult, he really loves it.” Thabo and Ntombi are the last two remaining rhinos at Thula Thula. They were brought in as orphans at just four and eight months old, respectively. Although they have been dehorned for their safety and there is a need to wean them from human contact, they are guarded 24 hours a day. Richard Mncwango was with them during the visit by the Chinese delegation. “Thabo is playful and he knows these game-drive vehicles,” he said. Although he is familiar with both Thabo and Ntombi, Mncwango is always alert. “Ntombi is calm, but when she is scared she becomes aggressive," he said. "I was trained to be careful. Although we are used to each other, they are very strong, so what might be a playful nudge to them could hurt me. If they charge, I run, but they take it as our game.” Mncwango spends his days following behind Thabo and Ntombi, rifle in hand. “Yesterday, we walked along the road and I knew they were going to the main house. That is where they were raised, so they miss it and go there sometimes,” he said. His job concerns his family. But they worry less about what the rhinos might do and more about what the people who hunt them would do. Mncwango believes there still isn’t much awareness in rural communities about wild animals. “We are either afraid, or think of them as meat or for use in muti, so we kill them. We had our indigenous ways of conservation, but there are a lot of things we didn’t really understand. It is unfortunate, but the truth is that it’s mostly local people who are used to commit this crime (of rhino poaching) because they are enticed by money. “It is very difficult for me to point a gun at a person, but it’s my job. I was told when I came here that my job is not to kill, but to protect, and that is what I do. I protect Thabo and Ntombi, and pray every day it does not cost me or any person or animal their life,” said Mncwango.