Durban - Seven o’ clock in the morning and bleary-eyed drug addicts are filing into an old poultry farm in Rucklen Street, Phoenix, for their first hit of the day.
Most businesses are closed at this time, but business was booming at the notorious 24-hour “Barnyard” drug den, when a team from the Daily News staked out the area for two days this week. Drug dealers openly plied their trade, while addicts milled around and took their drugs near a stream in a culvert not far from the Phoenix Highway. Residents say the Barnyard has been at the heart of the Phoenix drug trade for several years. Hundreds of straws of a drug known as sugars - a cheap concoction containing heroin - are sold blatantly over the counter from two shacks. The addicts have built makeshift homes from plastic and cardboard behind the boundary walls of the drug den, which is sandwiched between Rucklen Place and Triplen Circle. They sit on crates or on the floor in the Barnyard and its vicinity, in their shelters and under the trees while getting their fix. The Daily News saw addicts sleeping on the river banks after passing out. Parked alongside the Phoenix Highway, the Daily News observed the Barnyard and its customers go about their business with impunity this week. According to police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala, Phoenix police conduct regular raids on the known drug den. On Monday, however, the Daily News witnessed first-hand the police’s approach to the drug den. Four plain-clothed policemen arrived in an unmarked vehicle at about 9am. Upon seeing the policemen get out the car, addicts fled in different directions. The alleged drug lord who operates the Barnyard met the police officers outside and spoke with them for a few minutes. The officers did not go inside the Barnyard, and did not conduct any searches. Minutes after the officers left, more than 50 addicts returned and the rigorous trade resumed. According to residents, the drug den has been in operation for seven years. Gwala said police were working to shut it down. She urged the community to refrain from supporting the drug trade and to report it to the police. Residents, however, say that they are told the drug task team is only available at certain times when they phone the Phoenix police station. None of the residents wanted to speak on the record, fearing for their lives and homes. Activity at the den reaches its peak at midday and 5pm, when addicts queue up. Residents say they are kept up at night by loud noises from addicts and have to endure the stench of urine that emanates from the area. One of the more unusual methods of getting high for those frequenting the Barnyard is to cover their heads with plastic while inhaling their drugs. By not allowing any smoke to escape, they hope to get a stronger high. “We want the police commanders to stay with us and experience what is going on first-hand. “Our rates and taxes do not matter any more,” said a resident. READ: Drug theft behind killing Ward councillor Tino Pillay said the Phoenix drug task team was not operating optimally because the former head of the unit was promoted and given a desk job. “He did not get support from fellow police officers. The police know all the drug dens and dealers by name, but corruption within the SAPS is a stumbling block. The sale of drugs is visible to the naked eye, but nobody can shut them down. The public has lost hope,” Pillay said. Pillay is waiting for a report- back and statistics on drug arrests from the police. Sam Pillay, chairperson of the Anti-Drug Forum (ADF) in Durban, said dealers were operating with carte blanche. Pillay said he had held many discussions with police management where he requested that specialised drug units be created and equipped with resources to get convictions in court. “More money needs to be filtered through for a drug unit. Local police stations are inadequately equipped to deal with the drug trade. We urge residents of Phoenix to be proactive and ADF is willing to help get the ball rolling,” Pillay said. Umesh Singh, the Phoenix Community Policing Forum’s chairperson, said officers were making arrests on a daily basis, but the courts were releasing the suspects. “There is a concerted effort by some dedicated cops to make an impact. We need the community to protest outside the court and give their support to the police. Community activity is important,” Singh said. Daily News