Keith Khoza, deputy director-general of Gauteng’s Department of Human Settlements, confirmed that the department had requested its fraud and anti-corruption unit to investigate Chauke. This new development comes in the wake of a series of reports in The Star, in which the metro’s head of ethics has been implicated in the alleged fraudulent sale of an RDP house belonging to Siphiwe Shongwe. She resided in a shack for 20 years, despite owning the government-issued house, and was burdened with municipal debt of over R20000 for services she never used. Last week, The Star reported on claims made by Gunikaya Dwenga that Chauke had sold him municipal land for R15800 - of which R14000 was for the stand and 
R1800 for “legal fees”. It has emerged from the Ekurhuleni metro that the stand number Dwenga received from Chauke was invalid. These damning claims have sparked the ire of the Gauteng Department of Human Settlements. Khoza said they had been tracking Chauke for alleged housing corruption in other cases, but they never came to fruition, and they had been dealt with externally by officials outside the department. “That’s why we are starting a renewed investigation, where we have full control. "We will investigate the validity of the allegations and take them to their full conclusion,” Khoza added. “Allegations were made against Chauke in the past, but unfortunately we didn't see the outcome because at the time all the cases were referred to the special crimes office for investigation. "Subsequently, we have set up our own unit to conduct the investigations,” he added. Khoza’s views resonate with those of Human Settlements MEC Paul Mashatile, who expressed concern over alleged housing corruption in Ekurhuleni. Mashatile last week said his department would be working with law-enforcement agencies “in the pursuit of justice”. “The illegal sale of land and houses is sabotaging the government as well as the deserving beneficiaries. It also leads to resources meant for development being used in legal processes to evict them,” Mashatile said. Shongwe received a new low-cost house from the department, but Mashatile warned that this would not be the end of it as “Shongwe’s allocation of a house does not disqualify the fact that someone might have benefited illegally from a government house”. Sphelele Nxele, spokesperson for Ekurhuleni's speaker in the council, Patricia Kumalo - who is Chauke’s political head - said the speaker’s office had yet to be notified of the investigations against Chauke. “But the speaker's office welcomes the investigation and will provide assistance as required during the course of the probe,” Nxele said. Asked whether these investigations have a time limit, Khoza said: “It depends on how quickly we get all the evidence in these matters. "Sometimes people make allegations, and when we follow them up we find that they don't want to give evidence against the person implicated.” Khoza said the mayor of Ekurhuleni, Mzwandile Masina, would be informed of the allegations. “But the investigation will be conducted independently of the metro,” Khoza pointed out. @khayakoko88