They got a glimpse of media personality Minnie Dlamini in her fairytale white wedding gown, as well as her new husband Quinton Jones looking dashing in a suit, as they said “I do” at a gorgeous Western Cape venue. There were even snaps of celebrities including Somizi, Roxy Burger, Unathi Msengana and Liesl Laurie, who all attended the nuptials wearing their own stylish attire. Now fans can catch all the action when a documentary of the television presenter, actress and model marrying the TV producer airs next week. This is a first for SA television as Dlamini also served as executive producer of the show, which is due to be aired on DStv’s Vuzu Amp on Friday next week. Dlamini insists that the show is more than just reality television. “Becoming Mrs Jones is a deeply personal, beautifully-crafted and authentic documentary series where you will see my journey through my eyes and the eyes of my loved ones,” she gushed. Dlamini added that she and her family wanted fans to be part of their journey. “We wanted to ensure you can be part of the celebration, ride the wave of emotions with us and for the first time, hear my story told by me in my own words.” Dlamini added that she is proud of the three-part series and that she is happy with the final product. “I’m so proud of this series, from being the executive producer, to the high-quality resources we invested in the production and the incredibly talented creative people and crew we collaborated with. The result is this exquisite body of work that is an honest and visual representation of my heart during the most beautiful and intimate time of my life.” A spokesperson for the production said: “The series will be a melting pot of tears, excitement, humour, every colour of emotion imaginable, and ultimately, the beautiful joining of two families as we follow Minnie and Quinton through the process of planning their wedding.” She said that during the first episode, viewers would get to know Dlamini through the eyes of her loved ones and will witness the complete preparations for the traditional and western ceremonies. In the next episode, Dlamini jets off to Paris for her bachelorette party alongside her beautiful bridesmaids. “Viewers will also witness her dazzling traditional wedding, with a deeper look into how her Zulu culture celebrates marriage,” the show’s producers said. In the third and final episode, fans will get to see the actual wedding ceremony against the backdrop of Somerset West in the Western Cape. Becoming Mrs Jones airs on Friday October 13 at 7.30pm on Vuzu Amp.