After a 23-year hiatus, former Miss South Africa Basetsana Kumalo returned to strut her stuff on the catwalk at SA Fashion Week (SAFW) in Sandton City on Wednesday night. Now a businesswoman and philanthropist, her appearance for the Rubicon’s autumn/winter 2018 collection came as a surprise to fashionistas and celebrities alike, who packed the venue. She wore the last dress of the night, which was a show-stopper full-length lilac gown with a cut-out back. The dress featured a bustier-style top, and the entire look was elevated with fringe detail on the sleeves and bottom of it.  The fringe swayed as soon as Kumalo hit the ramp, eliciting rapturous applause and a standing ovation from the audience. The theme for her gown as well as Rubicon’s entire new collection was "nature fields of fantasy evoking nostalgia in a different time and place". This made it the perfect opportunity to bring back the beauty queen, who was crowned back in 1990, to the runway. Other items in the new range included experimenting with colours and fabric to showcase an elegant and sophisticated collection for women. This saw splashes of navy, beige and even more lilac being incorporated into the range of mostly loose-fitting dresses. Some of the most outstanding pieces were two baby-pink gowns, one full-length and one three-quarter; both came with matching capes. The soft-pastel tone has been featured several times on the SAFW runway, with many designers adding it to their own collections. Rubicon’s effortlessly chic autumn/winter range used light fabric such as lace and sheer material. The show as well as others of the second night of SAFW, including Sun Goddess, Sober, African Style Story and Liz Ogumbo, was attended by some of the country’s biggest celebrities. This included actress Pearl Thusi, DJ Zinhle and Luthando "LootLove" Shosha. While nostalgia was the theme of designer Hangwani Nengovhela's collection, the trend first appeared at Milan Fashion Week last month. This was as the so-called original supermodels, Cindy Crawford, Naomi Campbell, Claudia Schiffer, Helena Christensen and former French first lady Carla Bruni, took to the Versace runway. This was in a bid to pay tribute to the label’s founder, Gianni Versace, who has been regarded as not only significantly contributing to the fashion world and popular culture, but also for inventing the celebrity front row and the metal-mesh cocktail dress.