According to EFF leader Julius Malema, Nzimande’s axing would afford him the opportunity to focus his energy on fighting for the removal of Zuma ahead of the ANC elective conference in December. “He will have all the necessary time to go to the ground and campaign for the removal of the Zuma family in the ANC December conference,” Malema said. Detailing his reasons for endorsing the dismissal, Malema said: "There were big expectations on his (Nzimande) appointment as a communist into the cabinet but, like all communist appointments, Nzimande was consistent with incompetence and compliant with (the) bourgeois agenda.” Zwelinzima Vavi of the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) also said Nzimande did little to serve the interest of students in higher education. Malema was highly critical of Nzimande and his communists remaining in Zuma’s cabinet while calling on him to step down. “Why should they call on him to step down but continue to take his salary? "Let them resign and fight Zuma in the open. Let them come and join in the fight against Zuma." Malema said both Zuma and Nzimande were “self-serving”, saying: “Why should Nzimande be a cry baby?” Malema agreed with other opposition leaders that the appointment of former state security minister David Mahlobo to the energy portfolio was aimed at nothing else but to secure the nuclear deal. “The cabinet reshuffle is a clear consolidation of the state of capture for the nuclear deal. "It is also used to settle political scores and consolidate factional power for the ANC December conference, which will be the ultimate demise of the ANC as a whole,” he said. Malema was adamant that the appointment of Mahlobo as energy minister was to speed up the nuclear deal, saying his two predecessors, Tina Joemat-Pettersson and now recently Mmamoloko Kubayi, had acted slowly on implementing the deal. He also said that Zuma was going to push for the implementation of the deal, saying a recent ruling in the Western Cape High Court would not stop him. “The court cannot tell the executive what to do. Zuma is ready to plunge the country into chaos. If you took the Russians' money, then you must deliver the nuclear deal. Zuma has been trying to get the energy matter right,” Malema said. Vavi said: “Saftu has been highly critical of Nzimande’s role in government, for both his failure to meet the legitimate demands of the #FeesMustFall campaign or to make any attempt to introduce free tertiary education, and his long silence on the levels of corruption within the government, of which he was part.” Vavi said Nzimande’s recent opposition to state capture and the looting of public money was linked to the factional leadership battles within the ruling party, rather than any “sudden return to the communist principles which he long ago abandoned”. “He will be remembered for his long silence during the years in which he was part of a government imposing neo-liberal, pro-capitalist economic policies and his leading role in the move to have Numsa expelled from Cosatu when they ended their support for the ANC. "Any credentials as a ‘communist’ have long disappeared,” Vavi said. The Star