The solemn but dignified ceremony began with a religious service at the parish of St Paul’s Anglican Church in Jabavu, Soweto. Among those who attended were seasoned actor David Pheto, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa and a number of journalists, including Joe Tlholoe, former protégé whom the celebrated writer baptised into the journalism profession. Following his death as an exile in Manzini, Swaziland, on September 8, 1967 - the date that is universally observed as International Literacy Day - he was buried at St Joseph’s missionary school, Emzimpfu, the first non-priest to be given the honour.  In 2010, the family exhumed the body and he was reburied in the Anglican section of the Westpark Cemetery. It was an affair largely unnoticed by the country, a far cry from the well publicised return of his protégé and Drum colleague, Nat Nakasa - whose remains were returned from a New York cemetery and reburied in his home town of Durban in 2015. “We were just bringing our father back home. It was not about a national icon, hence the lack of fanfare around the event,” explains Yvonne Themba, the youngest of three daughters and a son, Linda Maphisa. His wife, Anna Sereto-Themba, who died in 2014, was also buried at Wespark. They were recently exhumed and buried at a section for eminent persons. Back in the Soweto parish, Father Jo Mangaliso Mdhlela described Themba as a great literary luminary who challenged the apartheid dogma with the power of the pen. “Fifty years after his death, the world hasn’t stopped honouring him. That’s because he was a prophetic voice that spoke truth to power. If he was still alive, I’m sure that he would have admonished the authorities for the graft and corruption that’s bedevilling our beloved country. Can Themba was a light in a dark world.” Mdhlela added that Themba’s House of Truth in Sophiatown was a forum of enlightenment, where dialogue was elevated above dogma, and every idea was interrogated with intellectual rigour. There was no place for populist rhetoric and political slogans. The only motto he embraced was the Drum office slogan, “Live fast, die young and have a good-looking corpse.” This was lifted from African American writer Willard Motley’s bestselling classic novel, Knock On Any Door (1947). In this case the early grave was made possible by excessive drinking that claimed a generation of talented scribes that included his former students and protégés Casey Motsisi and Stan Motjuwadi. However, his reputation as a corrupter of youth devil-may-care rabble-rouser who caused mayhem in Johannesburg’s white churches in the 1950s is largely unfounded. One of Drum’s landmark investigative writings from Themba’s sharp pen was Brothers in Christ. Published in the mid-1950s, the article was a result of the writer visiting a number of white Christian denominations as a worshipper to find out whether black and white South Africans were brothers and sisters in Christ. The adventure proved the opposite, as one church after the other turned him away even violently. “The Presbyterian Church in Noord Street allowed me in, yet the one in Orange Grove refused to let me attend their service At the Dutch Reformed Church in Langlaagte, I was stopped by an usher who said that this was a church for whites only,” he wrote. In Swaziland where he went into exile in 1961 following the destruction of Sophiatown, he was warmly welcomed by Father Angelo Ciccone, a young Catholic priest from Naples, Italy, and at the time head of the St Joseph’s missionary school in Emzimpofu. “It was late one night when I was woken by a knock at the door. When I opened the door there stood this dashing, handsome young man. That was my first encounter with this great writer, friend and hero,” Father Ciccone told Drum magazine in 2013. “It couldn’t have been much fun for Can as he had neither friends nor family in Swaziland. He spent most of his days in the library, teaching, in church or in his room. Yes, he was a lonely man and I was his only friend here.” Father Ciccone offered him a job as an English teacher. The priest remembered him as a gifted teacher with an extraordinary English vocabulary, not to mention a supreme command of the language. “He was also extremely logical in his thinking and had a deep love for humankind,” he observed. Described as the most fluent user of English in the Africa of his time, Daniel D’Orsay Canadoce Themba was born in Marabastad location, Pretoria, on June 21, 1924 - the second in a family of three. However, he regarded himself as a nativised Sophiatonian and indeed its supreme intellectual luminary. His daughter, Morongwa Themba, remembers him as a hopeless romantic who wrote Shakespearian-style love sonnets for his wife. Besides his passion for The Bard and Dickens, he was also an avid reader of the Good Book, particularly St Paul’s epistles. “The letters of St Paul inspired him to pen a play during his stay in Swaziland,” she revealed. Morongwa also remembered her father as a diplomat who played the role of a peacemaker in Swazi politics and a revolutionary who was once fired from his teaching post after he organised a strike for better salaries. “It was a difficult time for the family. Consequently we lost our house - which was also home to many young people who had fled apartheid and were en route to countries like Mozambique and Tanzania for military training. We found ourselves living in neighbours’ backyard rooms, but our mother was always a rock of support and a pillar of strength. Our father was a wonderful person who was married to a phenomenal woman and it is not a cool thing that he died so young.” The couple has at last found a final resting place among some of the country’s eminent citizens - fellow freedom fighters such as Ahmed Kathrada. She says the story that he died while he was reading a newspaper is apocryphal. He died of coronary thrombosis (heart attack). And of course, Can Themba’s literary legacy lives on. Early this year The Market Theatre set the tone of things to come when it staged The Suit (1993), a Barney Simon and Mothobi Mutloatse production based on his most famous short story. This was followed by Siphiwo Mahala’s House of Truth (2016), a one-hander inspired by collected works such as The Will to Die (1972) and The World of Can Themba (1985). The latter served as an encouragement for actor Sello Maake Ka Ncube to soldier on at the time when he was disenchanted with the industry and contemplating a career change. “Can Themba’s writings gave me a purpose to continue with my theatrical journey,” he says. “And for that I’m eternally grateful to him for his literary genius.” Themba’s date of birth - June 21, 1924 - is observed as Short Story Day Africa, because it is regarded as the shortest day of the year in the southern hemisphere - winter solstice. Themba was the first recipient of the Mendi Memorial Scholarship which enabled him to complete his studies at Fort Hare University College where he got a distinction in English and graduated with a bachelor of arts in 1947. He also completed a teacher’s diploma with Rhodes University. His teaching career started at Western Native Township High School (Madibane) where some of his pupils included Desmond Tutu, Motjuwadi and Motsisi. The House of Truth is at Port Elizabeth Opera House until tomorrow. It will subsequently be staged at Theatre on the Square, Sandton City, from October 29 to November 11.