His party later announced that it had dismissed the councillor, who cannot be identified as he was yet to appear in court. The councillor, who is based in the north of the metro, had allegedly sold two city-owned property stands for a combined R210 000. He was arrested along with another city official based in the Social Development Department. The two are allegedly in a romantic relationship. Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba, in a statement, alleged “that monies from the illicit transaction were paid into the employee’s bank account, who then transferred the money to the ANC councillor”. The two were expected to appear before the Johannesburg Commercial Crime Court today on charges of fraud and corruption. City investigations found that the councillor sold the first stand between December last year and January for R80000. “After being allocated a stand in Kaalfontein, the victim started building on the property and was stopped by residents from the area who indicated that the site was earmarked for a communal soccer field,” Mashaba said. A second stand, which was situated nearby, was sold for R130000. “The complainant became aware of the ANC councillor’s fraudulent conduct when she attempted to lawfully sell the stand,” he added. “Her attorney requested proof of ownership on behalf of her client from the ANC councillor. He then submitted to the attorney a fraudulent letter, with the city’s letterhead, stating that the victim lawfully bought the stand from him for R130000.” Mashaba said he was aware of the continued illegal sale of land in the metro. Jolidee Matongo, spokesperson for the ANC greater Johannesburg region, said the party dismissed the councillor after an internal investigation. He said the region’s integrity committee late last month processed allegations of the illegal sale of land by the councillor. “At the ANC integrity mommittee meeting (the councillor) was given an opportunity to present his case, and after deliberations by the committee; it was found that his actions were morally and ethically unacceptable,” Matongo said. The committee, he added, resolved that the regional executive committee immediately recall the councillor from his position. “The ANC greater Johannesburg region calls upon all councillors to desist from conduct that tarnishes the image of the ANC. We also call on members of the community to report any wrong-doing on the part of councillors to its offices,” Matongo said.