Jullian Gomes, Black Coffee, Black Motion and House Afrika took the top honours at the inaugural Dance Music Awards South Africa (DMASA) on Thursday evening.  The event was attended by the legends of dance music including the likes of Ralf Gum, Lars Behrenroth and DJ Christos.  Music lovers, dance die-hards and house heads got the chance to nominate and vote for their favourite DJ’s and producers on an online platform. The awards, founded by media house Soul Candi, received over 19 000 votes. The voting campaign started in August and each category had five overall nominees. The main event was hosted at the Birchwood Hotel in Boksburg. Soul Candi’s Ricardo Da Costa said the awards were about recognising a genre of music that defied all dividers and needed to be celebrated. There were 20 categories altogether. Jullian Gomes took home first prize for Album of the Year for his Late Dreamer album and also walked away with Best House Record for his hit 1000 Memories. Multiple award winning sensation Black Coffee bagged the Best Producer, Best Remix and Best Male DJ awards. The DJ is set for a busy weekend entertaining South Africans at a number of festivals after his return from Ibiza, Spain.  Black Motion took home the Best Live Act award and the Best Music Video award for their song Rejoice with songstress Bucie. Kaylow won the award for Best Male Vocalist while Lady Zamar added to her recent string of awards with Best Female Vocalist. House Afrika took Best Record Label and compilation of the Year for their Mzansi House Volume 6. Lars Behrenroth won Best International DJ and said South Africa was the only country that loved and understood his music on another level. Atjazz took the Best International Producer nod. He thanked all his supporters for the love they always showed to him. Pioneers of House award went to Sandy Rivera (Kings of Tomorrow). Das Kapital scored himself the Best EDM Record for Bend It and Jazzuelle took the prize for Best Underground Record for Don’t Forget Me featuring Lazarusman. Best Dance Radio Show went to Metro FM’s The Urban Beat, Best Club went to Truth and Best Festival went to Ultra. Lady Sakhe took home Best Female DJ and even Babes Wodumo walked away with an award for Best House/Gqom Record for her song Wololo.  The event was MC’d by Mo Flava.