The stone-throwing crowd accused Gauteng Human Settlements MEC Paul Mashatile of failing to deliver on a promise he made two years ago to provide them with land. According to Hlopheho Mlangeni, a community leader of the Transmotive Youth Movement, Mashatile again addressed their community in August and promised them land where they could build their homes. “Mashatile came and promised us land in August but that was last time we saw him. We’ve since called and emailed him, and he did not respond,” he said. Another community leader, who didn’t want to be identified, echoed the same sentiments. “The issue is that Paul Mashatile promised us land that falls under ward 10, and we are ward 8. He then appointed a task team to deal with the demarcation issue and stated that he would come back after 14 days to sort the matter out. “He never came back but sent a task team to give us feedback, and we were instead promised land nearer ward 8 and told that the MEC would be back to address us, which never happened,” he said. Mashatile’s spokesperson, Keith Khoza, confirmed that the MEC had made this commitment to the community but said it was not an overnight process. “The previous land which was bought was dolomitic and we have since identified three other pieces of land. We are in the process of paying for it,” said Khoza. The process involved two community members and two department officials, he added. The community member, however, highlighted that this was a promise made to the community at large and not specific individuals, and the anger in the community had escalated because of all the department’s empty promises. “The only language these people understand is violence, and it is the only way we will get their attention. “So the community agreed to close off the R59 in the hope that they will finally hear our plight,” he said. “We can’t have toilets that flush while we are living like this. What are we going to do with electricity in an area like this? We are clearly being undermined,” he said. He urged the mayor, Bongani Baloyi, to stop telling the media that the people did not want water and electricity. Baloyi confirmed that the community was promised land by Mashatile at a public meeting where timeframes were agreed to. “This demand was born of the frustration of slow housing delivery in Sicelo, from a project which started in 2011 to accommodate 340 families, which has only delivered about 236 houses to date, and the project remains unfinished,” he added. Baloyi said the Red Ants had been employed by the municipality to prevent further vandalism and damage to private and public property. Numerous vehicles travelling along the R59 were stoned, and burning tyres were thrown onto oncoming vehicles, which caused several accidents. Some protesters burnt  trucks and dug a trench on
the R59. Baloyi said: “I am very concerned and worried about the trend of ever-increasing violence in what is referred to as community protests, as this always leads to damage and vandalism to critical infrastructure.” The police confirmed that a man was beaten to death by the Red Ants and a case had been opened, but no arrests had been made. The 32-year-old deceased man was identified as Mpho Mira, who suffered from bipolar disorder. His sister, Sarah Motloung, said he was beaten to death with a crowbar by four Red Ants members a week ago.