These are words Luann Hatane, director at Paediatric-Adolescent Treatment Africa (Pata), often hears when she interacts with youngsters who have just found out they are HIV-positive. It’s also through these conversations that she has discovered how prevalent stigma and discrimination around HIV/Aids still are. In addition, she has discovered why grannies, aunts, uncles, parents and families find it increasingly hard to leave their homes early in the morning with a sickly child, only to return home from a clinic with a dose of medication and a perception of “what will people say?”. Hatane also tells of mothers struggling to disclose their status to their adolescent children and husbands, and blaming themselves for "sentencing their own children to death". And because these adults are often not sure where to start, they remain silent. These scenarios and many others are what Hatane and her team across Africa will discuss with doctors, nurses, caregivers and policymakers at this year’s Pata Continental Summit that started in Joburg today. Under the theme Towards an Aids-Free Africa: Delivering on the Front Line, the three-day conference will discuss one of the toughest questions posed by Unicef in its report last year: “How is it that in 2016, children are dying of Aids-related causes?” According to the report, every two minutes an adolescent is infected with HIV. It also stated that children between the ages of 0 and 4 living with HIV were at a greater risk of dying from an Aids-
related disease than any other age group. Because of these gloomy statistics, Hatane said it was vital that parents and caregivers inform children about their status from an early age. “It is important that engagement with younger children happens much earlier. Many of them sadly may only find out that they are HIV-positive when they are 13 and 14. "This can be a lonely and stressful time for them. It is also a critical period, when many of these children are going through changes in their bodies. They need all the support they can get,” she said. With many having asked about the most appropriate age to inform a child of their status, Hatane said there were various ways to ensure children understood the changes to their bodies and for them to be placed on treatment timeously. “The world has chosen to tell children horrible scary things. Living well with HIV is entirely possible. We have to make it less scary. Normalise it. "The biggest challenge we continue to have 30 years on is stigma and discrimination. If there was no discrimination, why would it be difficult for a child to talk about his or her status and take medication in public?” Hatane said some of the ways to implement this would be to use different techniques, such as storytelling. “A child who is 5 needs to be aware of what is happening to his or her body. Yes, as they grow older the manner in which adults educate them may differ. More important is that they be placed on treatment.” While there has been a plethora of conventions and summits around HIV/Aids, Hatane said this summit served to introduce those on the front lines. “It is a summit that will bring together nurses and caregivers from across Africa under one roof. These are the first people with HIV-positive pregnant mothers. It is these caregivers who look after children, some of whom end up as orphans,” she said. Pata also has a youth advisory panel which has seen youngsters taking charge and educating their peers about HIV and Aids. Most of the panel members are young people who already live positive lives with HIV. Those who will be present at the summit include Dr Angela Mushavi of the Ministry of Health and Child Care in Zimbabwe; Dr Shaffiq Essajee; Unicef SA; and Dr Nonhlanhla Dlamini, who will represent South Africa's Department of Health.