So serious is the epidemic that, under normal situations, the way of controlling such notifiable diseases would have been to cull all birds within a certain radius. However, given the fact that the zoo houses endangered, threatened and at-risk species, the state veterinarian agreed to find other measures to control the spread of the disease, which include vaccinations. The flu has been identified as the "highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPA1)" virus. A female blue crane died at the zoo on August 28. Post-mortem results reported the bird had died of avian flu, according to a JCPZ source. The state vet, who visited the zoo on September 5, inspected the enclosures to assess the risks. He ordered that all birds in direct contact with the dead bird be euthanised immediately. This comprised a male blue crane and four Marabou storks - a male and three females in the adjacent enclosure. The zoo announced on Wednesday that almost 550 carcasses had been recovered from the Westdene and Emmarentia dams, the Zoo Lake and and the Johannesburg Zoo. Residents have also been asked to monitor domestic and feral birds living in close proximity to the zoo. City Parks spokesperson Jenny Moodley said the HPA1 virus was not contagious to humans, but sick birds and carcasses should not be directly handled as a precautionary measure and zoo officials should be called to assist. Avian influenza, which was first detected in Limpopo, had been spread by the seasonal migration of birds, added Moodley. All the dead birds were being incinerated at the zoo and were being handled according to strict health and safety regulations, she said. The Johannesburg Zoo has also posted signs alerting visitors of the outbreak and requesting them to use the sterilising foot baths at the entrances and exits of the zoo, and to report all instances of birds which were sick. The sick birds would look lethargic or have ruffled feathers. “We are concerned about our birds, especially the valuable and endangered species, but we are vaccinating as widely as possible. Many of our bird species are safe as they are under cover but we are concerned about, and monitoring, the free-roaming ones,” Moodley added. The zoo had a special team on standby to recover carcasses. Other steps being taken were: System aimed at monitoring the affected enclosures as well as those which had not yet been affected has been designed and implemented. This entails categorising the enclosures according to the risks apportioned to each. Bird enclosures have been divided into high, medium and low-risk areas. The state veterinarian recommended that dedicated employees be assigned to specific enclosures until the situation was stabilised. Measures to control the use and accessibility of the animal kitchen to the staff that might unintentionally bring the microbes closer to where animal feed is stored and prepared should be implemented. The movement of vehicles in and out of the facility were also closely monitored and restricted. Vehicles might require to be disinfected through high-pressurised disinfectants. Zoo employees who kept poultry at home have also been advised to monitor their own stock and to be cautious in their actions given that they commune between the zoo and their enclosures. The National Institute for Communicable Diseases said that it could not comment on the latest outbreak of bird influenza in the city as the virus does not affect human beings. Residents who may have concerns can email jcp@jhbcityparks.com or call 0829061515.