The Star looked at how much these areas, particularly  Newtown and the Maboneng Precinct, have changed over the years. Newtown is located at the western sector of the Joburg CBD. The area is filled with historic buildings and the core cultural precinct of the Market Theatre, Museum Africa, Bassline, and music venues straddle the historic Mary Fitzgerald Square.  The precinct was divided into two. First, the Market Precinct (located north of the square) is dominated by the 1913 Market Building, home to the Market Theatre and Museum Africa. To the south of the square the historic Electric and Workers Precinct contains the Workers Compound, Turbine Hall, the Electric Workshop, Sci Bono centre and the South African Breweries Museum. With a historic background, during apartheid in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s many of South Africa’s most talented artists went into exile, including Dumile Feni, Miriam Makeba, Hugh Masekela, Todd Matshikiza, Can Themba, Nat Nakasa, Jonas Gwangwa and Es’kia Mphahlele. Black artists who remained in the country were mostly restricted to the townships, with the result that Soweto and Alexandra developed strong arts and cultural communities. Newtown offers a unique insight into the development of Johannesburg and modern South Africa as well as the key social, political, industrial, artistic and cultural trends that have come to be associated with Johannesburg’s evolution. A recent development in the area was the Newtown Junction Mall built in 2014. It’s a leap forward thanks to the biggest Joburg inner city investment since the Carlton Centre in the 1970s. The mall has become a groundbreaking place for retail space, restaurant and cocktail bars run by the savviest and most creative minds in the business. The design and curating was done by a highly accomplished design duo, Trevyn and Julian McGowan, of the design company Source. “The building that houses WSNT was built in 1911 and originally used to store vegetables and livestock. Re-imagining the interior architecture had to go beyond spatial design, it was important to consider how the original space contributed to the community and to restore and retain both the architectural and cultural heritage,” said Trevyn. “It’s exciting to see that two years later, our design has held up to the changing nature of Newtown. A dynamic and eclectic selection of shops means there’s a variety of brands, but the clear design language makes the space as a whole feel cohesive,” said McGowan. Bashemane Mofokeng, a freelance events co-ordinator and mood architect, has been exposed to the changes in Newtown over the past 10-15 years and said the space used to have cultural and artistic atmosphere which has slowly died out. Mofokeng said: “My favourite place in Newtown is Nickis Oasis jazz club because you would actually get known jazz artists and underground artists that would come jam there. “One thing that they should have kept in Newtown is the artistic vibes. To keep it lively and artistic. I would have loved to see an art centre built in Newtown built around the lifespan of the arty energy which was embedded in that part of the city,” said Mofokeng. He told The Star that his love for Newtown was because of the artistic vibe which he said: “All of that has died out over the years.” Meanwhile, Maboneng has become a new hub for  entrepreneurship, fashion, food and city living. Jonathan Liebmann, chief executive and founder of Propertuity in Maboneng, was one of the developers who saw a opportunity to collect abandoned warehouses and gradually turn the space into one of the city’s cultural cornerstones.  “I started small with a collection of abandoned warehouses that I felt had great architectural character and were strategically located at the eastern gateway to the city. Now known as Arts on Main, these warehouses have become the cultural cornerstone of Maboneng and a catalyst for many businesses in the neighbourhood including my own, Propertuity,” said Liebmann. “The concept for Propertuity was, and still is, to create a property development company that could restore and create iconic buildings and places that make the city a better place to live both now and into the future, and Arts on Main really set our course,” said Liebmann. Maboneng has now developed over 1000 apartments and 300 office spaces and created a network of streets that support independent retailers and opened a museum, thanks to Liebamann’s company. “We’ve commissioned over 30 large-scale public artworks, planted thousands of trees and opened innovative education and community centres,” he said. “It’s about providing places that bring people together. Neighbourhood Building Arts on Main got us thinking: what if we built a whole neighbourhood around here? Of course they don’t teach you how to create neighbourhoods at business school, so we had to trust our instincts. These early decisions were based upon a balance of social impact and profitability, and this remains a focus for the company today,” Liebamann added. One of the businesses that have flourished in Maboneng has been the Curiocity Joburg Backpackers, founded by a local businessman Bheki Dube. Manager Tshepo Mokone told The Star that Curiocity was one of the first intercity hostels which started in 2013 in Maboneng. “Before we started this business in this building, this building was occupied by a company known as Pacific Press,” said Mokone. “Just to play around with the history we called the bar the hideout bar because this place used to be a hideout for politicians. It’s a very quirky and rustic. We have kept the original feel of the building but gave it a nice modern feel,” said Mokone. He said the main idea was to provide a platform for international and domestic travellers to stay within the inner city and to engage with it on a grassroots level. Many businesses have set up their headquarters in the CBD, thereby revitalising huge sections of the city. The City of Joburg too, has over the past few years, been upgrading its infrastructure such as pavements and alleyways. This also included installing public artworks and upgrading parks. Hillbrow is currently undergoing transformation with work being done by the city in the Hillbrow Tower Precinct by the Johannesburg Development Agency (JDA) which is creating a pedestrian-friendly, safe and walkable urban environment through a network of public spaces for recreational, creative and entrepreneurial purposes. Park upgrades include the Pieter Roos, Donald Mackay, JZ De Villiers, Alec Gorshel, Le Roith and Pullingerkop. The Joburg Development Agency has also transformed many sanitary lanes into environmentally-friendly zones. Attractive murals add character. In the CBD, the FNB Bank City area has been revitalised and today thousands of people use the area daily where they work and trade. The mining houses around the Main Street area have also joined hands and have erected old mining gear along the road which is now a safe, well-guarded tourism area. The nearby area of Braamfontein, which is a student hub, has also, over the years, been revitalised by the private sector, mainly catering for student accommodation. The city itself has carried out vast improvements. @Zwane_2li2ls @annacox