The 25-year-old, affectionately known as “Londie London”, has been longing for stardom since she was six. “I always wanted to be in music. My older sister and I would perform at Christmas parties,” she said. “In 2013, I did the University of Joburg Idols and a lot of talent shows that people don’t know about, but the people who grew up around me know this.” Zulu is a popular social-media model who has quite a following online. “For the longest time I asked myself if I was really following my true passion and whether I had done enough to put myself out there, and the answer was no. I want people to know me for something tangible, so I decided to go for it.” She has been with Ambitiouz Entertainment for just over a month and has already released a single in time for summer, He Goes. The song is an upbeat dance track that will get people dancing this festive season. “Ambitiouz initially contacted me to be in a music video. After I told them about my music journey and played them some of the music I had done, they came to me with an offer,” she said. Zulu said she wanted to try different sounds but would be primarily focused on house music. “It works for me, though I want people to be able to hear different types of music from me.” People can also hear her vocals on the Miss Pru track Isaga Lam featuring La Sauce, Gigi Lamayne and Nadia Nakai. Zulu said the musical project she was working on would give people a chance to hear what she really has to offer. “A lot of people still doubt my talent, so I feel like if I have more work out there, they will be more familiar with me as a musician rather than seeing me just as a model,” she said. The Instagram influencer said she appreciated the opportunities social media had given her and wanted to make sure she proved herself “It’s a lot to take in for some people. Many are surprised that I am in music, and haven’t heard my single yet. It will take time for them to get used to it, but it will be worth it.” Zulu added that she was looking to do more collaborations, work on good music, and “really get into the industry”. “I don’t want to be sidelined or be dubbed a one-hit wonder. I’m in it until the end. “I am modelling for my music now.” @mane_mpi