Ease of access doesn't mean guaranteed entry though, as a Durban couple discovered when they were denied boarding of a flight to the Republic of Ireland, via Dubai. Rishi Maharaj and his wife had booked and confirmed their travel arrangements to the Emerald Isle in April. When they arrived at the airport, Emirates airlines informed them that Irish authorities needed to check their “profiles” before deciding whether or not they were able to board the flight. At the boarding gates, they were blocked, with no explanation given. “All they said was that ‘based on information provided to immigration by the airline (Emirates), advice was issued to the airline that neither you nor your wife were suitable to board’. “We returned home utterly disappointed very late that night. Early the next morning, I informed (the travel company) of this rejection and I was further disappointed when they informed me that they would only refund me a part of my paid-for ground arrangements, accommodation etc because I did not give 24 hours’ notice.” Thinking he had travel insurance to fall back on, Maharaj contacted Regent Insurance, but his claim was rejected because they weren't in possession of the required travel documents. I asked Hollard, the underwriters for Regent, about the rejection. Warwick Bloom, their group communications manager, responded: “Travel insurance policies are provided primarily for the purpose of providing cover for health events that may occur while the traveller is outside their country of residence and where they may not be comprehensively covered by other forms of health insurance (eg medical aid). Cover is provided for unexpected medical expenses that may be incurred due to sudden illness or injury - such expenses can run into many hundreds of thousands of rand. “The additional benefits on travel insurance policies for cancellation and baggage loss are really ‘top-up’ type benefits aimed at assisting travellers in respect of other losses that may occur However, in order to keep premiums affordable to travellers, such cover is typically strictly limited.” The Regent policy’s cover is limited to a health “event” that prevents the departure, or requires them to return home early from their planned, prepaid journey; an accident/hijacking that prevents departure; the policyholder’s retrenchment if it leaves them financially unable to continue with their trip; unexpected strikes and terrorist attacks that prevent departure or forces them to return home; theft of travel documents; and specific traumatic events. “Travel insurance does not typically provide cover for events experienced (by) Mr and Mrs Maharaj where they were simply denied entry into Ireland. Non-admittance into a country by authorities is a specific exclusion on the policy This exclusion occurs on most travel insurance policies worldwide - one of the reasons for this is the denial of entry by authorities could be due to a host of reasons, ranging from the traveller inadvertently not complying with the requirements of entry, to reasons that will not be disclosed by authorities due to security or other perceived risks. The broad nature of such reasons, the multitude of different regimes followed by authorities in different countries, and the potential unpredictability of their enforcement means that the risk is simply too difficult to quantify and therefore very difficult (if not impossible) to insure against.” Bloom reminds consumers who buy travel insurance to read through their documents (including the policy schedule which specifies cover amounts and insured details) and the policy terms and conditions, which contain a list of what is covered and what is not. Emirates reissued tickets for the Maharajs, which carried a $400 (R5500) penalty for both, but the couple say, had they known about the possibility of last-minute rejection, they would have chosen another holiday. “Consumers who are considering holidaying in Ireland should be made aware of this ‘immigration requirement’ through the media so that they can make decisions from an informed position.” Serendipity Tours, through which Maharaj booked, said tour operators only heard about the new requirements recently. Office manager Kim van den Berg says: “Ireland is a visa-free destination and therefore no visa is required. At the time Mr Maharaj travelled, none of the airlines or the Irish embassy had made us aware of the fact the client needed to travel with all supporting documentation - which is what Emirates claimed was the reason for him being denied boarding. “As far are we were concerned, he had all the correct documentation, a return air ticket, proof of accommodation, a tour booked and a valid passport - all the requirements needed when travelling internationally. After we were notified about Mr Maharaj’s problem, we contacted Emirates who advised us that the airlines were doing verification checks on passengers, as requested by the Irish Embassy. However, this had never been bought to any of the travel agents’ attention.” Even on the Irish Embassy’s website, there was no mention of the need for supporting documentation, Van den Berg said. She noted that, only last week, in a local travel publication, had they seen a report on the new requirement for documentation ordinarily submitted with visa applications, such as three months’ bank statements, proof of address and all travel documentation. The Irish Embassy told me they hadn't changed their policies - this was an Emirates requirement. They did note, though, that whether or not travellers required visas, it was merely “permission to present yourself at a port of entry”. Asked about this, an Emirates spokesperson explained: “While Ireland is a visa-free destination, certain documents and additional information may be requested at check in, by Irish Immigration, from time to time We recommend that all travellers check the entry and travel requirements by contacting the proper embassies or consulates.”