The Gauteng SAPS apprehended the 33-year-old police officer on Monday while working at Germiston police station. The Star news team arrived at around 2.30pm just in time to witness the arrest of the suspect in the double murder and attempted murder of a child, who was with the two women when they were killed. Five police officers swooped on the station and bundled the suspected killer cop into the back of a car. The arresting officers first questioned him in the car for about 30 minutes before taking him to Johannesburg Central police station to await his court appearance. Gauteng SAPS spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini confirmed the arrest and said the matter was already in court, as the police officer had been pointed out as an accomplice and should appear in court on Wednesday. Dlamini said: “A 33-year-old constable from Germiston was arrested on a warrant of arrest following an investigation of murder and attempted murder committed during 2015 in the Germiston policing area. It’s a double murder and attempted murder of a child.” He said he could not go into the details of the murder before the policeman made his first appearance in court. However, a source close to the family and the case alleged that one of the hired hitmen pointed him out as one of the accomplices involved in the premeditated killing of the two women and the attempted murder of an infant in 2015. The source told The Star that four men, one of them the officer, were allegedly linked to a violent taxi inheritance feud, which led to the death of two people. The brother of the officer was a taxi owner who was shot and killed in 2014, leaving behind his wife and three children. The death of the brother led to the officer and three other men to allegedly plot the death of his sister-in-law and take over the business. The source told The Star: “These boys planned the killings. This was premeditated murder. “They allegedly sat down and planned that this lady is the one who killed this man, so we must also kill her. “The actual reason is that they wanted to inherit all the kombis that belonged to the brother’s wife. “They thought no, she was going to take the money and enjoy it with the boyfriend. So they decided to kill her. He hired one boy, who called another brother to team up for the murder. “The policeman took them and drove a car (to the place) where the brother’s wife went to visit her sister,” he said. He added that the men waited for the sister-in-law and her sister in her Germiston home and shot them several times. The sister-in-law had three children, aged five, seven and 10 at the time. The family source described the killing as motivated by greed to take over the taxi business. The suspected killer cop allegedly joined the gunmen when they went to carry out the hit and is said to have personally gunned down his sister-in-law. “He was worried that if she survived the shooting, he would be exposed, so he took the gun and finished her off himself,” said the source. The five-year-old child was the only survivor in the elaborate double murder plan. “They waited for the skwiza’s (sister-in-law) car to come back home and shot them dead. The women were killed while a child was seated in the back seat. The skwiza was shot by the brother-in-law multiple times,” he said. @Zwane_2li2ls The Star