Instead, Ethel Ncube, the owner of the Pretoria-based Precious Angels, told an inquiry yesterday that she housed them because she wanted to change the lives of psychiatric patients. Ncube said she was paid about R100000 a month to care for 58 patients who were removed from Life Esidimeni as part of the Gauteng Department of Health’s cost-cutting measures. Twenty-three psychiatric patients died in her care. Ncube said she was still in debt from caring for patients because the Health Department didn’t pay her for three months last year. She said that to make ends meet during the time when the department didn’t pay her, she had to get a loan from her mother and a social club. “I even stopped paying rent and was kicked out. My car was also repossessed. I suffered and my family members had to give me sugar from their homes,” she added. Ncube formerly ran a daycare centre for children with severe and intellectually profound disabilities. This was the first time that she had taken care of adults. Her 12-year-old daughter has an intellectual disability. When patients were moved from Life Esidimeni, she initially received 21 adult males, and the number later increased to 59 patients. Ncube admitted that she didn’t have a licence to house the patients at two homes in Danville and Atteridgeville. Instead, the licence she applied for was for a facility in Lynnwood and another at Kalafong Hospital. The first batch of patients were moved to an eight-room double-storey house, she said. Some rooms had to accommodate four patients at a time, and she received linen donations from her mother. Ncube said that at both centres, a professional nurse would come and assess patients once or twice a month. She didn’t have a doctor, psychiatrist or occupation therapist at the centres, and only the 20 caregivers were full-time staff. Ncube, who is an early-childhood practitioner, admitted that she was not trained to deal with patients with disorders like Alzheimer’s and dementia, but she cared for them nonetheless. “Was it not irresponsible to take these people?” asked Legal Aid lawyer advocate Lilla Crouse. “We were not irresponsible. We did our level best,” Ncube said. A sobbing Ncube told the Life Esidimeni alternative dispute resolution hearings that in the six months that she housed patients at her two facilities, it was the first time anyone had died in her care. Asked by the head of the arbitration, former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke, whether she was sad about the deaths, Ncube said: “Sad is an understatement. I never got counselling. It was a first that a person died under my care in the last six years. It’s not an easy journey, even now.” She said the department never came to her to apologise for putting people in her care. Moseneke asked: “Did you tell the department how saddened you are about the people who died in your care?” Ncube said: “After the second death I went to them crying.” “Why did so many people die in your care?” Moseneke asked. She said: “There wasn’t enough relevant parties that would carry the whole marathon.” Moseneke asked her to compile a list of all the patients who had died in her care, and send to his office along with the post-mortem reports. After a hard day of grilling, Ncube said: “It was not intentional. It is a thing that haunts me. All the stakeholders 
helping in the centre have pulled out because of my involvement in Life Esidimeni. I am currently unemployed. I am sitting here as a parent who knows that you want the best for your children. “I would give my life to fill their hearts with peace. I still suffer from trauma,” she sobbed loudly.