But this time, it will be up to a group of dogs to set a new milestone for the nation in an attempt  to get into the Guinness World Records for the largest gathering of pooches wearing bandannas. Although the event, expected to be held in Gauteng this month, will attempt to set a new world record, organisers have insisted that they are doing it for the right reasons too. Pet insurers Dotsure Insurance, spearheading the campaign, said it was also to raise awareness about animal cruelty. It was aimed at educating pet owners about the importance of taking care of their pets. Dotsure managing director David Roache said this was the same reason they started the company. “As animal lovers ourselves, we created dotsure.co.za for the love of our four-legged friends. “Pets are such an important part of our lives. We feel they deserve the same care that we afford ourselves.” He said the group has a zero-tolerance approach to animal cruelty and was thrilled to start a campaign which sought to spread an animal-friendly initiative. “The dotsure.co.za event is therefore centred around the Animal Anti-Cruelty League, the second-largest independent animal welfare organisation in South Africa.” Roache said the current record to break of dogs wearing bandannas was 764. It was set by an Australian animal shelter. In an effort to smash the Aussie record, dog owners were urged to gather at the Irene Village Market on October 28 with their furry friends. Once the owner and their dog had been registered, the bandannas for the dogs would be handed out. “Following this, the big countdown in hope of breaking the current world record will begin,” said Roache. The bandanna count would be followed by a fun doggy walkathon, where pets and their owners would be invited to stretch their legs and receive their award handouts at the finish line. The walk would begin promptly at 9am. Once the morning’s formalities were over, more festivities would follow, with an arts and crafts market as well as pet stalls. The event-goers would also have a chance to enjoy live entertainment and indulge in delicious food and beverages which would be available. To be part of this Guinness World Records’ title  shot, an entry fee-donation of R20 per dog would  be required on the day, or more, depending on how much each participant was prepared to donate. To register for this thrilling record-breaking doggy day out, visit dotsure.co.za - this includes a doggy bandanna. All the proceeds raised from the day would be matched by the insurance company and donated to the Animal Anti-Cruelty League. For further information on the event, see dotsure.co.za or visit their Facebook and Instagram pages.