On Wednesday, the Roll Up hit-maker spent the day with 60  fans for the Chappies Collab that will see them feature in his new music video. Earlier this year, Chappies joined forces with Emtee, whose real name is Mthembeni Ndevu, to create the Chappies Collab - an incredible opportunity for 60 lucky fans to live their dream. Nokuthula Nyembe, who is a third-year education student at Unisa, came all the way from KwaThema in Springs to see the star. “I entered the competition via YFM and I won. I love the way Emtee executes his music. That’s what I love the most about him. I resonate with his music, and my favourite songs from him include Plug, Corner Store, Ubuya Nini, Summertime High and RIP Swati, to name a few.” Nyembe said she couldn’t wait to see the final product once the video was done. The 23-year-old made sure to take a lot of selfies with Emtee before the shoot got under way. ALL SMILES: Nokuthula Nyembe with her favourite rapper Emtee. The event took place at Chaf Pozi in Soweto, and fans were treated to a lunch and lots of Chappies hampers ahead of their cameos in the music video. Ofentse Boshielo’s love for Emtee stems from the fact that the artist came with a new wave of trap music. “He set the bar high and has continued to maintain the standard as an artist in that genre. “I’m ready to be surprised by this new video and all he has to offer with his new music.” The Mamelodi resident entered the competition on Facebook to be part of the video shoot. “I can’t explain the feeling I got when I won,
I was speechless” Chappies’s Kerisha Govender said the collaboration was a fun way to interact with a new generation of consumers. “We believe the opportunity to create the Chappies Collab with Emtee was a great way to merge the heritage of Chappies with local music talent.” For Emtee, growing up with Chappies and reading up on all the Did You Know? facts always made him the smart one among his friends. “I grew up on the gum. I only started eating these other gums when I started making money. The Did You Know? facts were so important to me, because I’d always come to my friends and act like I know stuff, but I had just read it off the wrapper. It’s got a lot of memories; we used to make rings out of the wrappers.” Emtee is sharing the stage with some of his biggest fans for the Chappies Collab. Picture: Matthews Baloyi He said the collaboration meant he could reach out to many of his supporters.  “Not so many things I do involve the masses and I’ve always wanted to involve them somehow, and this opportunity gave me that chance to reach out to them. “Chappies is national, and the competition was not based on who you are, how much you have or where you are from.” The star said consistency in his music meant he was always recording potential tracks. “Any time for me is time to make music, so I just keep on doing it. I have more than enough music. I know it doesn’t matter where, how or when I make it. The important part is the release and impact the music has on the people.” The music video featuring his fans is set to be released in December. @mane_mpi