The trade event ran from Tuesday to Friday, with designers and brands exhibiting their autumn/winter collections. This included ladies and menswear, accessories, shoes and bags as well as active wear. Jo-leen Jan, the SAFW trade event liaison, said: “The trade event used to be the buyers’ lounge, which was a lot smaller and more intimate, however, it was also Fashion Week’s vision for it to grow into a proper trade event. “This has been seven years in the making: to groom our designers to be retail ready and also to have stable relationships with retailers and buyers, so that there is interest. It has taken a while but this is the first ever trade event.” Jan said established designers showcased in the trade event, such as Clive Rundle, AKJP and Ephymol, who all showcased their pieces during the week. After the Show it's time for the Trade Event for Media and Buyers! #safw #safwss17 #safwwomen #africanstylestorycollection #ss17 #fashionweek #madeinsouthafrica #tradeevent #safwtradeevent A post shared by Carla Pinto (@myafricanstylestory) on Apr 1, 2017 at 3:49am PDT  This year, the trade event invited the High Commission of Canada, where two indigenous designers, Sage Paul and Angela DeMontigny, were to showcase and be a part of an exchange of fashion experiences during the week. Nuala Lawlor, the trade commissioner, said: “The two indigenous designers came down to participate in various components of the SAFW. Angela DeMontingy showcased last night, with a beautiful collection of high-end leather, and is inspired by her own background. “Sage Paul is more of an artist and she is here to do a lot of lectures and workshops with various design institutes. All of this is supported by the government of Canada and a new policy we have called “Creative Canada”, trying to support Canadian culture both at home and overseas.” Meanwhile, South African young designer Arnold Phasha, designer of Agreo, described his collections as a way to foreground individuality and hidden beauty. He showcased his ladieswear collection on Tuesday. Phasha said: “It was so beautiful, and it was my first time to show people that I can do ladieswear. I got through the trade event, which is great to be able to talk to buyers, which is also something challenging, such as negotiating prices. I have managed to get new clients.” After his show, Phasha told The Star that he was able to get on the grassroots level with retailers and buyers. Shaylene Morris founder Bi Parel grabbed the vibrant retail environment as she said her streetwear designs were inspired by the Japanese culture and Western urban silhouettes. SAFW is one of the biggest fashion events in the country. It opened its doors to 53 collections, showing at the Sandton City Rooftop. It is now in its 20th year and has had more than 10 000 guests, including media and buyers from around the country. @Zwane_2li2ls