Two hundred weddings later, nine presenters to date and seven seasons in the can, Mzansi Magic’s popular reality show, Our Perfect Wedding gears up for its 200th episode airing on Sunday, October 29 at 7pm.
 
The reality wedding show has been nothing short of exhilarating and breath-taking moments filled with love as couples made their way to the altar to say ‘I do’.
 
Each episode saw the presenters supporting the couples through their special journey, while documenting the planning from choosing their dream dress, theme colours, menu, and what the groom will be wearing to the celebration of their new chapter with friends and family.
 
The weddings have come in all shades of colours with unforgettable dramatic moments, some pleasantly shocking and some so emotional that you cannot help but put yourself in the couple’s shoes. The presenters played a massive role in reassuring and lightening the mood when it counted most, while ushering the couples to what could be a daunting yet exciting day.
 
“Our Perfect Wedding has exceeded our expectations. This milestone highlights that we have pushed the boundaries to create content that remains true to the essence of entertainment while celebrating love”, said Reneilwe Sema, director Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net.
 
“Our Perfect Wedding has grown from strength to strength with our audiences, giving a new meaning to Sunday night viewing and starting conversations that become Monday mornings discussion across the country”, said Sema.
 
Families gather in anticipation to see what the bride will be wearing, what the couple have up their sleeve to pull their dream wedding and the all-important story of how they met.
 
OPW has showcased all kinds of nuptials and celebrated love with viewers in Mzansi and beyond the borders, all scoring an invitation to the wedding in the comfort of their living room.
 
More episodes and weddings are yet to come, tune in on Sunday at 7pm for the 200th episode on Mzansi Magic, DStv channel 161.