“If you feel attractive, people will be attracted to you. You don’t have to be a specific size. You can be small and still be unhealthy. We want to embrace our bodies and be healthy,” says Babalwa Funda kaMaboza, one of the finalists in the inaugural Ms CurvyBody South Africa. At the Indaba Hotel in Fourways yesterday, the organisers of the event, Mapule Mphaki and Naniwe Maqetula, launched the event, which is described as a platform to embrace the female form. “This is a platform where you can really get in touch with yourself,” said Mphaki. Of the 15 finalists that have been selected, only three will be chosen as the best of the best at the finale on October 28. One of the youngest finalists, Bochabelo Leshaba, said this competition had allowed her to appreciate and love herself more. “I’m a size 38 going on a size 40 and I value myself as much as a girl my age who is a size 28. Growing up, I was called isdudla (fatty), so I had little confidence. But as I matured, I learnt to accept my body and move on with my life,” said the 19-year-old. Another contestant said she had struggled with her body because she was either too fat or too curvy for modelling competitions. “People would always ask me why I don’t enter these pageants and the truth is I was never confident enough. This competition embraces social issues and not believing in yourself is such a killer.” Maqetula said the competition was not about size. “It’s all about women embracing their uniqueness.” She said the finalists came in all shapes and sizes and it was important to remember that there was a difference between being a fuller-figured woman and being a curvy one. It took about eight months to process the entries and choose the final 15 who will compete for the title. The organisers are in talks with other countries, which host similar events, to join them and make a global competition. There will be various categories for the judges to choose who will win the title: swimwear, African wear, gala and Ms CurvyBody personality. The overall winner gets a 10- day holiday in Mauritius.