Thousands of people are expected to take to the streets on October 28. It is expected to be a colourful day with participants, from all walks of life, spreading positive energy at the event. Those who attend can look forward to not only a social occasion but also a fashion show, live performances as well as food and beverages. Kaye Ally, who will be overseeing the day’s proceedings, said about 
7 500 people are expected to be part of the Johannesburg Pride. She promised that this year’s event will be bigger and better than before. One of the big changes is that it will start later to allow attendees the opportunity to enjoy the nightlife element of the event. Johannesburg Pride will again take place at Melrose Arch, an upmarket area of the city. This means attendees will be catered for sufficiently as theywill be able to use their parking facilities and there is also ample security at the venue. “We are loud and proud and we will celebrate in an integrated environment for the whole world to see,” Ally said. She said the venue reinforced what the event stood for, which is a positive stance on sexuality, and a medium for self expression as well as unity. The proceedings are  expected to begin around midday when crowds begin to gather at Melrose Boulevard, which will be referred to as Pride Village on the day. From around 2.30pm,  arrangements will start being made for a stage to be erected for a fashion showcase. “We anticipate the Fashion Show to add to the general excitement of the festival,” said Ally. During the fashion show, there will also be a drag act by the legendary Justine de Queer. Various items will also be on sale at the gathering. “Community organisations and interest groups will set up tables and stalls to advertise their activities and sell items such as T-shirts, literature and memorabilia,” said Ally. One of the highlights of the day’s proceedings will be the entertainment. Local musician Tamara Dey will be the Johannesburg Pride overall entertainment ambassador, which will see her not only perform but also take on the role as the MC. She will be joined on stage by DJ KG, Karma and Biskit, Oluweethu, Skye, Darker than White as well as DJ Shakti. While the general entrance for the event is free, those who want to be hosted in the VIP Lounge will have to fork out R250. This will see them receive free drinks for the day as well as have access to the private lounge, private bar, their own VIP bathrooms and a Pride branded sun hat. Meanwhile, the official Johannesburg Pride after-party will 
be hosted by Babylon, the Joburg Bar. E-hailing service Uber will be one of the sponsors of Johannesburg Pride and, apart from having a pick-up and drop-off point, it will also be giving away vouchers on the day. Search engine giant Google will also be a sponsor and will supply a Chill Lounge to show the LGBTI community support and offer extra seating at the event.