The seventh annual Trek4Mandela initiative together with the Caring4Girls campaign and the Imbumba Foundation have introduced a new element to support underprivileged girls to coincide with the commemoration of Madiba’s 100th birthday, Trek100. The Trek100 initiative will give 67 young girls, who excel at school despite their disadvantaged backgrounds, the opportunity to travel to some of the Seven Wonders of the World. The girls will have a chance to explore, learn and take a once-in- a-lifetime experience back to their communities. Trek100, also known as the EPIC 7 Continents Challenge, is building on the success of the Trek4Mandela with an exciting global development designed to capture the imagination of a nation with a programme of aspiration and achievement. Imbumba Foundation founder and Trek4Mandela climber, Richard Mabaso, said: “There was a lot of taboo around me as a man talking about and reaching out for assistance to provide girls with pads. “But after that first summit of Mt Kilimanjaro, no one was questioning, criticising or talking about the taboo “They were talking about the cause that motivated us and that is what is most important,” he added. At the launch, Mabaso said: “When Madiba’s funeral took place, I was in England. I remember watching it on TV and what I was asked about Mandela’s legacy and what was said, you didn’t have to meet Mandela to make a difference. “That has stayed with me. It was one of the key things that I came to realise and observe. “With the Trek100, we want to celebrate Madiba’s 100th birthday, “The Trek4Mandela has always been people having to pay to climb Mt Kilimanjaro, but we need to ask ourselves what about those who can’t afford it, but would really like to contribute. “We wanted to say to our sponsors how about you sponsoring one girl to go with us to visit the Seven Wonders of the World. We are talking about an epic adventure” Mabaso added that this would be a wonderful inspiration for any young girl. The Trek100 initiative will be an amazing experience for the 67 girls learners to be sponsored by corporates willing to support the initiative at an estimated $10000 (R136325) per pupil. Local media personality and host Gerry Elsdon once summited Kilimanjaro and looks forward to doing it again. “It’s an ambitious plan, which can only really be achieved with support, creativity and buy-in,” Elsdon said. “Kilimanjaro is epic. It’s life-changing. It can be daunting, but the journey to get to its summit will stand you in good stead for life,” she added. “I was climbing the mountain so that other girls don’t have to. I climbed that mountain when I was a teenager,” she said. The beneficiary of the Trek4Mandela and Caring4Girls initiative, Jennifer Khoza, who is the head girl at Ivory Park High School, said: “Your support for the Caring4Girls Campaign empowers us. “It ensures our dignity and it gives us hope. It also inspires us to do better. “I am a living testimony of the word hope, because success is the agony of failure.” In the true spirit of Madiba, Independent Media is a media sponsor for the Trek4Mandela expedition this year. Tebogo Monama, a reporter at The Star summited Mt Kilimanjaro. This year, the Caring4Girls campaign raised, through its Trek4Mandela climbers, over R300000 to support 1661 girls. Through the SMS line, more than R50000 was raised to support over 316 girls. The number of sanitary pads collected through this year’s Million Comfort campaign will support over 160000 girls to ensure they don’t miss school when they have their period. @Zwane_2li2ls