Cape Town - Alleged 26s gang boss Jerome “Donkie” Booysen is “recovering well” in hospital after being shot four times at the Cape Town International Airport early on Wednesday morning. The 52-year-old, who took three bullets to the chest and one in the right arm, is still at an undisclosed private hospital. No arrests have been made in the shooting which injured Booysen and another man. Sources close to Booysen’s family have confirmed that although he was seriously injured in what was the third hit on him in the past six months, “he has bounced back with great vigour, ready to help police catch the people responsible for this crime”. Read: Alleged Cape gang boss hit 4 times in #AirportShooting WATCH: Cape Town International Airport confirms shooting Airport 'hit' is alleged retaliation for Cubana shooting A family friend told the Daily Voice Booysen was enjoying his “holiday”: “He is looking forward to returning home and resuming his life. This stay in the hospital is more of a bother to him than anything else. He works all the time and being in hospital has kept him from that.” It’s believed Wednesday’s shooting at the airport was a botched assassination attempt on the alleged gang boss, in retaliation for the shooting at Cubana in Stellenbosch in the early hours of Saturday morning. Mom of two, Nicole Muller, 30, was hit in the head when the two gunmen opened fire on another patron, Donovan Jacobs, 40. Jacobs, who also died, is said to be linked to the 28s gang and The Firm, allegedly run by Ralph Stanfield. He was allegedly a top-ranking general in the rival gang. Gang sources claim the hit was put out on Booysen following the Cubana attack. Also read: Dad of Stellies nightclub shooting victim 'angry' Family devastated after young mom killed at Stellies nightclub Nightclub patron relives horror of gun ordeal They also say that the order to kill Booysen still stands. Meanwhile, relatives confirmed that “protection detail” for Booysen and his family has been beefed up. Police sources say they are keeping a close eye on the situation as they expect an all-out gang war to erupt on the Cape Flats. Meanwhile, minister of police Fikile Mbalula has said security at the airport should be improved. Spokesperson for the minister, Vuyo Mhaga, said: “The minister will be meeting with airport management and police in future, to implement similar measures like those used at OR Tambo International Airport.” One other man, a bystander, was also injured in the shooting at the airport. The white man, believed to be in his 50s, was transported to hospital. Police’s Brigadier Vish Naidoo said the investigation is ongoing. Daily Voice