Joy Jeronimo instituted a R670000 damages claim against the municipality in the high court in Pretoria. She held the municipality responsible for the injuries her son had suffered. The municipality agreed to settle the claim, without admitting any wrongdoing or liability. Her son Jordan suffered a 20cm-long and 6cm-deep tear to his leg when he fell in between the metal sheets. Jordan and his friends had visited the Cornet Indoor Sport Centre in Boksburg on April 1
last year when the incident occurred. The centre belonged to the municipality, which it hired out for events. According to Jeronimo, the incident was caused solely by the negligence of the municipality, because it failed to maintain the premises and failed to ensure they were safe. The mother said visitors should have been warned that the drain was not properly covered and that there was a gap in between the sheets covering it. The least it could have done, she stated, was either to cover the gap temporarily or erect a warning sign next to the gap. Jordan was admitted to Sunward Hospital, where his wound had to be attended to in theatre. He had to walk with the aid of crutches for several weeks after he was discharged from hospital and he could not take part in sport. He was especially disappointed as he was due to play in a tennis tournament during the school holidays. The incident was very traumatic for the boy, who at the time was a Grade 5 learner at St Benedict's College. His brother Blake, who was there at the time, also suffered from trauma as he “thought his brother was about to die”. Jordan's leg is now scarred, and his mother said he was left severely traumatised by the incident. A psychologist said he displayed symptoms of a post-traumatic stress disorder and suggested that he receive treatment for it. He will in future also re-
quire intensive physiotherapy to his right leg and particularly his right knee, and will have to undergo reconstructive surgery to the scar on his leg. The municipality denied it was negligent and stated that if Jordan was indeed injured by falling in between the gap, he has himself to blame, because he probably did not look where he was walking. Apart from this, the municipality said, there were huge noticeboards erected at the entrance to the indoor sport centre, clearly stating that the facility was to be used "at own risk". An engineer gave evidence that in his expert opinion, and by looking at pictures of the partially covered drain, it indeed posed a risk to a person walking in this area. The grid also had sharp points which could cause severe damage to a person who stepped into the opening. The expert said that in his opinion, the lack of maintenance of the drainage grid had led to the incident. Lawyer Jean-Paul Rudd said he and Jeronimo were satisfied with the outcome of the case.