Langa worked with Mandela’s original manuscript, which he never finished, and completed the book, which Madiba had intended as a sequel to his international best-seller Long Walk to Freedom. Langa and Barbara Masekela, a former aide to Mandela, were in conversation last night before a packed audience in the auditorium of the Nelson Mandela Foundation in Joburg, where Mandela himself often attended events. The book contains a portrait of the great Tata Madiba, photographed by Jillian Edelstein. Dare Not Linger is the story of Mandela’s presidential years, drawing heavily on the memoir he began to write as he prepared to conclude his term of office but was unable to finish. Langa completed the task, using Mandela’s unfinished draft, detailed notes that Mandela made as events were unfolding and a wealth of unseen archive material. On a local radio show, Langa said: “It was left incomplete because obviously Madiba was busy and he had a lot of other things that he was doing. And his health failed him in the end. "The project was left for a number of years. But I suspect that there had to be an issue of rights and an issue of someone having to type it out and bring it into some kind of decent version, before it was then given to the publishers.” Langa said once the book had gone through the publishers sometime last year, he had some time to work on it. He said Mandela had written 70000 words. Langa’s role in the book was to contextualise what was written by Mandela, and the use of the archives assisted him. He learnt from Mandela and his presidency that there were layers to the "reality" that was in the public domain and layers that were "obfuscated". “Madiba was grappling with members of his own political party in order to push through projects and programmes for the benefit of South Africa, rather than for the benefit of only the ANC. He also grappled with numerous problems during the course of his presidency, particularly the problems of having to ensure that the legacy of the past was done away with,” said Langa. Several months after Mandela’s passing on December 5, 2013, his widow, Graça Machel, approached the Nelson Mandela Foundation with a proposal to have the manuscript completed and published. Joel Netshitenzhe and Tony Trew, who both worked in Madiba's presidency, set about conducting wide research and new interviews with former members of Mandela’s staff. Langa later drew together their work with Mandela’s own writing and produced Dare Not Linger. The team worked closely with publishers Blackwell & Ruth, who had published a range of books by and about Mandela. “Mandla has done an extraordinary job of listening to Madiba and responding to his voice authorially,” Machel says in her prologue to the book. “My wish is that every reader will feel challenged by Madiba’s story and be inspired to work towards sustainable solutions to the world’s multiple intractable problems,” says Machel. Nelson Mandela Foundation chief executive Sello Hatang said he hoped the book would show what Mandela dreamt for South Africa. “Dare Not Linger will enable them to interrogate what it is that we can do differently to make sure that the future is different."