Cape Town businessman Sadeck Zhaun Ahmed has spoken out about his harrowing ordeal following his release by kidnappers. Ahmed said his family was an incredible pillar of support over the last few weeks. “This was a traumatic experience and I am relieved that this incident is finally over. There was nothing more I was looking forward to than being back safely with my family. "There were times that I felt that I would not see them again due to my failing health. I was allowed to speak to my family. That offered me some relief and hope,” he said. Read: 'Zhaun's safe return cost family R20m' The 71-year-old owner of Zhauns Business Opportunity Machines was kidnapped in Woodstock on Tuesday, July 25, at 5.30pm by three men who threatened him with a firearm. According to police, Ahmed and his driver were in his car when a double-cab bakkie pulled up behind them, threatened Ahmed with a firearm, bundled him into the vehicle and drove off, leaving his driver unharmed. The double-cab was later found in Victoria Road, Woodstock. In a statement his family said it was not informed of his release beforehand and that no ransom was paid to the abductors. This despite reports that a ransom of R20 million was paid for his release. Also read: Kidnapped Zhauns owner reunited with family “Mr Ahmed was dropped off in the vicinity of the Rondebosch Medical Centre by his abductors where a passer-by assisted him to call his family. They  were surprised to hear of his release as the family had no prior warning from the abductors that they were planning to release him. “There was no ransom paid by the family to Mr Ahmed’s abductors as there appears to be a case of mistaken identity. It took his abductors some time to realise that he was not the person they were looking for,” read the statement. “He was blindfolded all the time and does not know where he was being held nor who his abductors were. He was disorientated after being released. He is being treated for severe somatic symptoms relating to his experiences during captivity,” read the statement. "Mr Ahmed’s heart condition and health deteriorated while he was held captive. He had several blackouts during the period of his abduction. He believes his abductors were concerned about consequences of his deteriorating health." Cape Times