Speaking before the release of the crime statistics, Mba-
lula said he wanted to deliver a police service that was professional and courteous, among others. “The SAPS has an acute lack of leadership from station level up. The customer service for our people is appalling. Batho Pele was just an event inside the SAPS It is not something management truly bothers with,” the minister said. “Police stations and 10111 are the places at which service delivery begins. The police must treat our people courteously and with sensitivity. “We agree with our people that much needs to be done to improve our front-office services,” he added. Mbalula said the #MyPolice-
Station Campaign was meant to address shortcomings in customer service. Although there was a decrease in overall crime, with police working under tough conditions, Mbalula said the men and women in blue were being let down by management. “Our police are working under tremendous situations, but are not led properly by management. Management must have strategic capacity or else we have accepted living with criminals as a part of life,” he said. The Police and Prisons and Civil Rights Union (Popcru) said that despite the decreases recorded compared with last year’s statistics, not much difference was evident as the percentages had changed only slightly. “In this regard, we are of the view that the SAPS should review its whole organisational structure. The main challenge is that the SAPS has become a Hollywood-like structure, in that almost everybody is acting at national structures, provincial structures and units across the country,” Popcru spokesperson Richard Mama-
bolo said. “The SAPS structure in its current form is bloated, wherein you find a lot of duplicated positions This has led to having too many bosses with conflicting mandates and directives that have caused confusion and poor performance,” he pointed out. He said different leaders came with different mandates that ended up confusing the functions of police on the ground - the very people who were supposed to execute the crime prevention strategy. “We have been consistent in saying crime does not happen at national and provincial offices, where most of the manpower is currently located,” Mamabolo said. The EFF said the SAPS was “among the most unprofessional, inefficient and unreliable of public services, with little ability to investigate and combat crime”. “Our society’s levels of crime signify the inhumane conditions of high unemployment and poverty in a country of First World proportions of wealth,” the party said in a statement. The ANC in Parliament said the shocking increase of 6.4% in aggravated robbery and 14.5% in hijackings countrywide was indicative of a society that was increasingly becoming unsafe and more violent. The ruling party echoed Mbalula’s sentiments that Gauteng, the Western Cape and KwaZulu Natal must become priority areas where the deployment of police was important. Crime remained a serious challenge, which required joint efforts by all stakeholders to tackle and eradicate, the ANC statement read. “Crime fighting remains one of the ANC government’s top priorities,” it added.