SA Fashion Week (SAFW), dubbed one of the biggest style and lifestyle events on the African continent, officially gets under way in Joburg today. For five days straight, fashionistas and buyers will get a glimpse into what 50 local designers will be presenting. This will be for next year’s autumn/winter collection to correlate with the American and European fashion calendar. Those attending will also be hosted at a new venue, as pro-
ceedings are expected to be hosted at the upmarket Sandton City rooftop. This latest instalment will see models take to the catwalk in the attire of some of the country’s biggest designers. This includes the likes of Gert Johan Coetzee, Rubicon, Sheila-Madge Design, Sies! Isabelle and Sun Goddess.  In a bid to promote the local fashion industry, there will also be several initiatives at this season’s SAFW. The Sunglass Hut New Talent Search 2017 is one of them. It will see young designers create a collection that achieves the fine balance between commercial and aesthetic appeal. This is a huge platform which has the potential to springboard their careers as the luxury fashion eyewear brand has more than 3000 retail spaces worldwide. This initiative, which has been running for three years, was founded by SAFW director Lucilla Booyzen. She said the reason for the talent search was to give designers the opportunity to enter the fashion industry and make it a profitable venture. “One of the most difficult challenges for a start-up designer today is the breakthrough to retail,” she said. “A sure way for designers to fast-track their careers is through entering fashion competitions.” The Sunglass Hut New Talent Search 2017 will take to the runway tonight. The Woolworths Style By SA collection, which is also set to showcase tonight, also seeks to provide a platform for up-and-coming designers. The seasonal collection features the work of eight local designers which will be available in several Woolworths stores around the country or on the retailer’s website. Apart from giving aspiring designers a platform for their work, some of the biggest names in fashion are set to dominate the catwalk this week. Rubicon, the label designed by Hangwani Nengovhela, is expected to be one of the highlights of tomorrow night’s collections.  Her designs, which are acclaimed for their tailored craftsmanship and effortless chic, are always a hit with fashionistas. One of the other most anticipated collections is Coetzee’s, as he is known to dress the likes of Bonang Matheba, Minnie Dlamini and Noma Gigaba. His latest designs, which will be presented on Thursday night, will be dedicated to childhood
literacy.  According to our sister publication, the Saturday Star, his collection will be modelled by The Bold and Beautiful star Karla Mosley as well as international model Thando Hopa. Menswear designers will take to the fashion stage on Friday and Saturday, where the likes of Vintage X Afropunk, RK Menswear and Tailor Me will be showcased. Some of the best pieces for the autumn/winter collections will also be made available to those attending to view at the SAFW trade event. This will also allow buyers the chance to analyse some of the designers’ items.