They say the president apologised unreservedly for ignoring complaints of irregularities during preparations for the disputed KwaZulu-Natal 2015 conference. Speaking after a marathon meeting with the party’s national top six leaders on Monday evening, Sthembiso Mshengu, the spokesperson for the aggrieved party members, said the president had admitted that the NEC had made a series of mistakes. ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa would not divulge what had been discussed and provincial chairman Sihle Zikalala said the party would not comment on the meeting. Lawrence Dube, listed as the first complainant in the Pietermaritzburg High Court case in which the conference was declared unlawful and void, also confirmed that Zuma had apologised. Mshengu said supporters of former ANC provincial chairman Senzo Mchunu had raised issues of irregularities after he had been ousted by Zikalala at the 2015 conference, but the complaints had been ignored. Commitment “He (Zuma) made it clear on behalf of the NEC that there were mistakes in not properly following up on issues that were raised by branches, including those that were raised in December 2015. The president had made the commitment to come back and respond to them, which never happened,” said Mshengu. He added that ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe did not attend the meeting. Mshengu said Zuma also apologised for the NEC’s failure to follow up on complaints of irregularities during branch nominations for the local government elections. He said Zuma also admitted that the NEC had erred by not attending to complaints that the provincial executive committee (PEC) had disbanded the eMalahleni region and “the taking over of powers by the PEC in the lower South Coast and far north regions”. Dube said Zuma “apologised for everything”. “He apologised for not taking our matter seriously, for not responding to issues that we had discussed on December 12, 2015 and for ignoring a letter from our attorneys. (The apology extended to) our filing of the court case and he admitted they did not pay attention,” he said. Dube said the NEC had revealed that it had given the PEC the go-ahead to appeal against the judgment “because according to the legal opinion the case was winnable”. “We are going to oppose the appeal,” said Dube. Mshengu said the rebels left the meeting about 6.30pm and they were optimistic that the national leaders were committed to building unity in the provincial structure, although they were “not explicit” on whether they would disband the PEC. “We made it clear to them that we expect nothing less than disbandment. They said they were here as a task team and they will now report to the NEC and return with a decision,” said Mshengu. Busy Earlier in the day, the Coastlands Hotel in Dr Pixley kaSeme Street was busy, with guests seemingly oblivious to the ANC national executive committee meeting being held at the venue. A hotel security guard said the establishment was always busy at this time of the year with tourists and pupils who had booked their matric dance events: “The rooms from floor seven to 24 are fully booked. 
The ANC has occupied the conference venue on the 
third floor.” Daily News