One of those arrested is Chanelle’s mother’s partner. Meanwhile, the Manenberg Community Policing Forum (CPF) suspects that the child was sexually molested prior to being killed. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said: “Two suspects, aged 29 and 32, were taken in for questioning. However, they have not been charged yet, and the investigation is continuing.” On Friday, Rwexana said: “A case of murder has been opened for investigation after the body of a 10-year-old girl was found this morning in Primrose Park, Manenberg. According to reports, the girl was reported missing on Thursday.” According to Manenberg CPF chairperson Abdul Kader, Chanelle, a pupil at Primrose Park Primary School, did not arrive at school on Thursday. “The family became worried when she had not yet returned home by 6pm on Thursday. She attended an after-school programme that concludes at 5pm. . "They then searched for an hour and a half, and reported her missing at 8pm on Thursday night,” Kader said. According to Kader, neighbours and friends in Audrey Court, Manenberg, were questioned during the search, and it was revealed that Chanelle hadn’t arrived at school that morning. “From the description, it is understood she had a routine every day from which she never veered. She left for school at 7.30 every morning. "She returned home at about 3pm to put down her school bag before she went to the after-school programme,” Kader said. He said a search party was about to resume on Friday morning when they received information that Chanelle’s grandmother had found her body. “Because we did not want another case like that of (murdered three-year-old Elsies River girl) Courtney Pieters, we searched the family home thoroughly and there was no sign of her. "We were about to get the K9 Unit in on Friday morning to conduct a further search of the area, but I received a call to say the grandmother came across her body.” Kader said red flags were raised when allegations were made that Chanelle's home was frequented by “unsavoury characters”. “When an investigation was made, it was revealed that unsavoury characters were always seen in and out of the home where Chanelle lived. "Her grandmother and mother admitted this when questioned, and all information was shared with police,” he said. This brings the number of child murders in the Western Cape to 69 for the year.  chevon.booysen@inl.co.za  Cape Times