Style is a way to say who you are without having to utter a word.
For some people, their style exudes from their self confidence, for others it’s in the way they carry themselves. Others view it as a way to reflect on attitude and personality. This weekend the country’s most stylish people will come together to celebrate, by dictionary definition; the way in which something is done- style. 
The Star had a Q&A with three winners, actress and tv presenter Thembisa Mdoda, tv presenter Ayanda Thabethe, tv and radio presenter Luthando Lootlove Shosha. Mdoda wowed audience weekly with her stylish looks on the Mzansi Magic reality show Our Perfect Wedding. Her outfits would trend every Sunday evening on Twitter as fans complimented the star for the way she dressed her natural curves. 
Ayanda Thabethe's rise on the television screens has seen audiences fall in love with the way she dresses her petite frame. Her Top Billing gowns blow away audiences whenever she appears on the SABC 3 show.
Shosha’s look has evolved from her days on SABC 1 music show Live. Though understated, she never puts a foot wrong in the fashion department. Her style can go from tomboy chic to sophisticated elegance adding that much more to her character. Mdoda was awarded Most Stylish TV and Film Personality for this year’s SA Style Awards. Picture: Supplied The Star (TS): How has your style evolved over the years?
Thembisa Mdoda (TM): The more I am cemented in my purpose and who I am, the more Style solidifies itself. The more I have full autonomy in what I look like and that makes me smile. There’s a lot more to my style now than before. It’s simple yet meticulous.
TS: How would you describe your style?
TM: Simple. Meticulous. Eclectic and vibrant. Also I love being comfortable in what I wear.
TS: Do you have any style icons? 
TM: I do. There are people who can put together a look with ease, and you can safely say that is a 
Tracee Ellis Ross look. That is a Rihanna look. Lootlove also has that. Miroslava Duma too.
TS: What makes a person stylish?
TM: Authenticity in whatever they wear. Style is a marriage. Something can look great on someone else and still not be for you. 
TS: Do you have any favourite designers? 
TM: Rubicon, Dainty Frocks, Quiteria & George, Ralf & Russo and Almondant to name a few. Eye catching pieces. 
TS: Would you consider starting your own clothing line or collaborating with a designer?
TM: Absolutely. Without a doubt. Ayanda Thabethe was awarded with Most Stylish Media Personality for the SA Style Awards. Picture: Supplied The Star (TS):What is your go to everyday look?
Ayanda Thabethe (AT): Effortless chic. I believe that style should be an extension of who you are and should never look like you tried too hard. I try to keep it simple by accessorising classic pieces.
TS: What goes into the preparation of your outfits?
AT: It’s as simple as how I want to feel or what to portray in the environment I’ll be finding myself on any given day.
TS: Do you have any style icons?
AT: I am inspired by different people for different reasons. Victoria Beckham and Kim Kardashian are firm favourites. I’m yet to name my official style icon.
TS: What items do you think every woman should have in their closet?
AT: Classic blue denims, an LBD (little black dress) of course and a white tailored shirt Luthando Lootlove Shosha was awarded Most Innovative Style for this year’s SA Style Awards. Picture: Supplied The Star (TS): Your style has been hailed as one of the coolest in the country, what's the thought process behind your looks?
Luthando Shosha (LS): The first thing I consider when I put a look together is comfort. At all times I must be comfortable. Quite honestly, I mostly just get up and go… hahaha. I’ll always pick my shoes first, that tells me where the outfit is headed.
TS:Do you style yourself?
LS: I do style myself everyday and on big nights like The Upcoming SA Style Awards and such, I have a really amazing stylist who assists me - Siyamthanda Ndube. 
TS:What makes a person stylish? 
LS: Their ability to make mass-produced clothing look like a completely different fit on them and them alone – owning a look. 
TS: Are there any specific trends you like? 
LS: I’m completely in-love with the wide legged, high-waist pants; and pleated A-line skirts. Sports lux and the wake of street style and it’s influence on high fashion will forever be my favourite trend. 
TS:What is the one item of any look that you can't do without?
LS: I love accessories, especially earrings and rings. With rings: The more, the merrier; and with earrings: the bigger, the better. The awards celebration will take place on Sunday within the Diamond Walk, Sandton City and the San Deck, Sandton Sun. Below is the list of the 2017 winners:
 
1. Most Innovative Style:
LootLove 2. Most Stylish Performing Artist in Film or TV:
Thembisa Mdoda 3. Most Stylish Performing Artist in Music:
Black Coffee 4. Most Stylish Media Personality:
Ayanda Thabethe 5. Most Stylist Designer Interior or Fashion:
Tristan du Plessis 6. Most Stylish Model
Candice Swanepoel 7. Most Stylish Business Personality
Colin Coleman 8. Most Stylish Couple
Dineo Moeketsi + Solo 9. Most Stylish SA Icon
Jenny Andrew (posthumous and tribute to be paid) 10. The Next Big Thing / Style in the City
Kefilwe Mabote (Social Media) / Clare Wiese-Wentzel