“It’s the most amazing feeling ever, now that I have the title. I have goosebumps everywhere. I can’t describe how I feel. I am privileged and honoured and happy to be representing women out there who are exactly like me and flaunting their curves.” The 32-year-old Pretorian said she was grateful to the organisers Mapule Mphaki and Naniwe Maqetula for hosting an event that embraced the female form in all its shapes and sizes. “When I first heard about the competition, I was a bit worried. I wondered how the public would take to such an event and if it would really be accepted.  But then I thought to myself, ‘if no one is out there representing us, who will?’ It had to be done.” Tanda said she was ready for the world to take notice and celebrate the curvy shape because it wasn’t going anywhere. The event was held at the weekend at the Indaba Hotel in Fourways. The 15 finalists went through a rigorous process answering questions and showing off their curves in the swimwear section. “It’s the most amazing feeling. So many women in South Africa are just like me, and we can’t let society define who we are. I must define myself,” Tanda said. The supply chain management professional has taken a break to pursue her modelling career full-time. “I started modelling in 2012 as an Edgars plus-size model and I have gone on to do other campaigns for brands such as Donna (previously Donna-Claire) which I am currently the face of. I love modelling, that is where my heart is.” Tanda said her reign would see her promote the Ms CurvyBody brand and celebrate with other women. “It’s not just about me. I will be going around the country to encourage others to embrace who they are. I don’t see myself doing anything that doesn’t promote who I am. I want to work with the next Ms CurvyBody to further promote the celebration of curves.” As the winner of the title, Tanda walks away with a five-day vacation to Mauritius, a trip to New York to experience The Lion King’s 20th anniversary on Broadway, a one-year gym membership from Zone Fitness and a weekend away at Indaba Hotel. Other prizes include  beauty treatments and clothing vouchers.  A portion of the proceeds raised for the pageant will go towards  improving the lives of girls at the Gaamongoe Girls Club in Gauteng and the Thembekile Mandela Foundation in the Eastern Cape. @mane_mpi