The Limpopo-born beauty was honoured recently at the Owami Women Recognition Awards in partnership with Brand SA at Montecasino. The work through her Mapitsi Foundation was lauded for its role in nation-building. “My heart is all about rural schools. Any time I get to plough back into the community, I will do it. It’s a deliberate effort to go back and help because if I don’t do it, other people won’t. This is how I started my foundation.” Matebane focuses on building skills that pupils can use in future. She partnered with Geekulcha, a tech-development organisation, to give schoolchildren better access and opportunity to see what careers exist in the field. “We have a camp for a week where we take graduates and schoolchildren to learn about IT decoding, programming and all the elements of tech. “We sit with them and teach them how to present business cases that will be beneficial to the community. The classes get so full and the children never want to leave,” she said. Matebane added that having the workshops was another way for them to be innovative with the way they delivered career expos. “We had a case where one girl was a top pupil and matched to be in IT. “Having a programme like this allows them to compete in the real world. They leave school being digitised and their knowledge enhanced.” When she started her organisation, it was all about giving back to her school, Thagaetala Senior Secondary School. “Now the career expo and camp host five schools, with up to 1200 children taking part.” The workshops are currently being held over the school holidays. Matebane is in the process of collecting 1000 computers for 100 schools. “I entered Ms Africa to make a bigger impact. I believe in literacy and advancing people in knowledge and adding that sustainable difference to people’s lives. So I’ve taken the things that I have been doing and added them to the campaign for Ms Africa.” It cost R150000 to run the career expo every year and she had now started to attract sponsors. “I’m accountable for all my projects, they are so close to my heart. I want them to continue to prosper.” The single mother of three and now Brand SA ambassador will compete in the finals of the Ms World pageant next month.