Department of Public Works Minister Nkosinathi Nhleko yesterday announced that the amount could easily shoot up as other areas hand in their assessments. The severe storms hit major parts of the two provinces including Krugersdorp in Gauteng and Durban in KwaZulu-Natal. Nhleko said: “While the final cost is being quantified to inform the final assessment, repairs at some of the 30 properties in KwaZulu-Natal - 17 state-owned facilities occupied by SAPS, the departments of Labour, Justice and Defence, and 13 leased facilities - has commenced.” He said contractors are expected to be on site by the end of the week at all remaining sites after emergency procurement procedures and the appointment of contractors have been finalised. Nhleko said repairs to the South Gauteng High Court and Krugersdorp Home Affairs offices had already been attended to. The department said that it was committed to mobilise resources to assist the affected provinces where possible. According to Nhleko, the department received a report that in KZN, 324 schools were damaged at an estimated cost of R57 million throughout the province. “Public Works and Education will have to assess the reminder of the schools following the storm,” said Public Works spokesperson Lesiba Kgwele yesterday. Pertaining to the Department of Health facilities, 18 infrastructure cases had been reported and the cost of the facilities had not been concluded, according to Kgwele. DA KZN spokesperson on co-operative governance and traditional affairs  Hlanganani Gumbi said the party welcomed the KwaZulu-Natal cabinet’s decision to declare the Durban metro a disaster area following the storm. “The move will allow the province to access additional funding from national government to assist the many people affected. “The step is indicative of the seriousness of the storm, which saw 11 people die and caused extensive damage,” said Gumbi. “It is also indicative of the fact that the province’s  disaster management budget is hopelessly lacking after being cut by some 50% to accommodate the remuneration of izinduna in the province. “An urgent and thorough investigation is required and the DA will insist that the MEC and her senior officials be thoroughly interrogated. “In particular, it must be established whether more could have been done before the storm reached landfall, preventing loss of life,” said Gumbi. Meanwhile, in Gauteng commuters using the M1 will have to wait another week before the reopening of the three lanes in the southbound direction. According to Johannesburg Roads Agency (JRA) spokesperson Bertha Peters-Scheepers, the lanes are now scheduled to reopen on October 23. “JRA thanks all road users for their patience,” she said. @Zwane_2li2ls