DeafSA officials said the 5km and 2.5km fun walk was a success and the organisation had received overwhelming support. Deaf SA Gauteng director Judith Madi said: “We’re overwhelmed by all the support and the outcome of the walk.” The Silent Walk partnered with the City of Joburg, SABC Foundation, Royalty Communication and Hospitality, and Wits University to bring together the deaf and hearing communities. Participants were given masks and earplugs to get a feel of what it’s like to be deaf. The experience connected the deaf and hearing communities to promote the learning of South African sign language. The theme for this year’s International Week of the Deaf was “Full inclusion with sign language”. Other themes from past years included “Sign bilingualism is a human right” in 2012; “Equality for deaf people” in 2013; and “Strengthening human diversity” in 2014. Joburg’s mayoral committee member for health and social development Dr Mpho Phalatse said they were proud of the turnout at the Silent Walk on Saturday. “We will continue to stand in full support of the deaf community. I would like to urge more people to get involved in their projects. “I would also like to call on more private and public organisations to get involved and support such initiatives,” she said. The International Week of the Deaf was globally celebrated from September 18 to 24, but in South Africa most initiatives took place in the last week of September. Earlier last month, advocates for the deaf - Eaton - created several opportunities for the hearing-impaired through Project Phakama, an inclusion and diversity programme officially launched to coincide with Deaf Awareness Month. Eaton offers several training courses for classroom and practical work as well as learnership programmes to promote the learning, development and placement of the deaf. Robert Horsley, the human resources manager for the Eaton Africa region, said: “According to Statistics SA, around 2.9 million South Africans are living with disabilities, but only 1% are employed. “Initiatives such as this are vital to give young deaf people an opportunity to acquire the necessary skills for employment and exposure to the working world. “We believe this is an especially worthy initiative as the deaf or hard-of-hearing are often marginalised. “And it is for this reason that we plan to extend our sponsorship and involvement with eDeaf during the coming year.”