Even though the weather wasn’t as warm as expected, the turnout for the third annual event was a success because it was bigger than the last two years. Celebrities, friends and family of the Reach for Recovery organisation braced themselves against the cold to come out and support the worthy cause. Held at the Inanda Club in Sandton, the day was filled with activities that included a polo match, pop-up stores and a garden emporium. The affair was filled with lots of great food from By Word of Mouth, flowers and bubbly. The pop-up stores had ladies and gents coming in for pamper sessions while the garden emporium was a beautiful lounge area where people could connect. Entertainment from rapper Rouge and afro-soul duo Mafikizolo had the crowd on their feet throughout the day. Nhlanhla Nciza of Mafikizolo also hosted a fashion show from her NN Vintage designer label. Spotted at the event were actresses Tema Sebopedi, Jessica Nkosi and Enhle Mbali Maphumulo.  Sebopedi, known for her playful looks, sported a pink tutu and bowtie. Nkosi was garden chic in a tight-fitting floral dress and Maphumulo showed how simple it was to wear a dress differently. She recently donned the same blue silk number at SA Fashion Week, pairing it with leather pants. For the polo event, she dressed it up with strappy heels and a gorgeous summer hat. Hosts for the day were Kaya FM presenters Thomas Msengana and Kgomotso Meso. The polo saw two teams go head to head in an exciting match. Team Cell C were the winners after four chukkas against Team Tanqueray. Guest were also invited, after the second chukka, to do the traditional divot stomp. GOLD STOMP: Barbara Strydom does the divot stomp on the field. Picture: Mpiletso Motumi Proceeds from the event go towards the Reach for Recovery Ditto Project. Chairperson Stephné Jacobs said it was important to get the breast health message across. “Reach for Recovery was founded in 1967, in fact we just celebrated 50 years of our wonderful support service in the country. The organisation is recognised as the pre-eminent source of  support for breast cancer patients in the country.  We have 214 active volunteers. This year alone, we supported 5 654 patients. SURVIVE AND THRIVE: One of the Reach for Recovery volunteers holding balloons to release on the field for the appreciation ceremony in honour of breast cancer survivors. Picture: Mpiletso Motumi At the polo event the 20 peer volunteers and survivors were driven in Jaguars onto the field and released balloons into the air as part of the appreciation ceremony to remind the guests present of why they were there in the first place. “I think this must be what Maya Angelou meant when she said surviving is important but thriving is elegant. Today, and on each Pink for Polo Day our reach for recovery volunteers thrive in style.” Edith Venter, event organiser and Cansa Gauteng patron, said she was thrilled by the support. “The day was absolutely fantastic. It’s just gone off seamlessly, everyone has been so supportive and when you see this come together, it’s just such a blessing,” she said.