Yesterday, Mantashe also pulled no punches in slamming Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu, saying her recent comments questioning his Struggle credentials were "unfortunate". Responding to Sisulu, Mantashe said the party had entered a “very silly season” in the run-up to its conference, in which leaders were not rational". Sisulu was quoted as saying Mantashe’s perceived endorsement of Ramaphosa showed he lacked the necessary objectivity and credibility to run a democratic conference. “Where was he (Mantashe) when we were fighting for freedom in exile and in jail, which he today is abusing for personal interest? "He must hand over an ANC that is intact. Under him, as SG (secretary-general), we gave birth to Cope and the EFF and fractured Cosatu - something we never imagined,” she said. On Sunday, Sisulu sought to clarify her comments, saying they should not generalise beyond Mantashe. “Comrade Lindiwe's comments were, rightly or wrongly, all about comrade Gwede Mantashe. She remains firm on what she insinuated about him. Her statement was never intended to be a generalised blanket indictment on the masses of South Africans, whose sacrifices and contribution to the Struggle she will forever cherish,” a statement said. But Mantashe lashed out at Sisulu, saying that she equated the Struggle to being in exile. “Her comments were un-
fortunate in that she associates the Struggle with exile, and therefore, everybody who was internal here, who was actually in the belly of the beast, facing the enemy every day, who was disrupting the point of production every day, was working for royal families and cautioned about the enemy,” he said. “What you must remember is that if you work for a royal family you are an invisible contributor They take the credit on your behalf. I thought I must not engage in the discussion with Minister Sisulu because I think she made a grave mistake. I want to come back and engage on the political issues in the run-up to the conference,” he added. Mantashe also fired a salvo at those who argue that by endorsing Ramaphosa, he would not be impartial in dealing with processes of the party ahead of the conference. He pointed out that it was the party’s national executive committee which had the responsibility to run the conference. Mantashe also highlighted that there were six members of the NEC, including officials (Zweli Mkhize and Ramaphosa), who were vying for the presidency of the party. He maintained that ANC members should engage on why Ramaphosa doesn't have to succeed Zuma, in the same way it was argued before the ANC's Polokwane conference in 2007. “When people want to limit the preparations of the ANC to an individual, all of them are part of an executive committee that must prepare for the (elective) conference. "It is just malicious and mischievous to try to pin me down on the issue,” he said. Mantashe also reiterated that the party’s succession process needed to be managed, because failure to do so could lead to disaster, as in 2007 and before. “What caused me to be accused of supporting Ramaphosa is that I am asking a simple question: an organisation that is 105 years old must manage succession. You cannot have a free-for-all. I (have been) raising that as a principled issue for some time now. "I am also saying that every time the succession process has not been managed, we ended up in a crisis." He added the ANC would have to explain to its members and society if it overlooked Ramaphosa and then the party could be at peace with itself. " With the experience of President Zuma President Zuma must have the experience that informs him that it is correct to actually manage that succession smoothly. In the run-up to Polokwane we used the same argument; it was President Zuma who was the deputy president at the time."