What was meant to be the pride of Soweto for aspiring photographers and art collectors when it opened in 2001, the Alf Kumalo Museum in Diepkloof, has over the years degenerated into a nyaope den, a hideout for criminals and an eyesore. Saturday will mark five years since Kumalo died from cancer. The famous museum is in a shameful state. His family blamed delays in the execution of Kumalo’s estate. Hundreds of iconic pictures from the apartheid era, from celebrities to the 2010 Fifa World Cup, were left lying on the floor while others were torn. Equipment, including negatives and a vintage camera, was gathering dust in the adjacent dark room. The leaking roof had caused spots on the ceiling. The building has been burgled twice and a 1-terabyte hard drive with thousands of pictures that were being processed was stolen. Both the museum and its photography school closed shop soon after Kumalo’s death. “This place was a sorry sight and in a very bad condition when I moved in a few years ago. Nyaope boys and homeless people lived here,” said Stanley More, who was asked by the Kumalo family to look after the building. He converted one room into a bedroom. More said he had spent some of his own money fixing the building and maintaining the yard. “Even Alf’s children hardly come here any more. The only ones that do are people who want to shoot film or music videos,” he said. The family’s executor, Tebogo Kwape from Kwape Attorneys, was shocked that pictures were still at the museum. “As far as I know we collected every piece of work for safekeeping. I was there. Where are these new ones coming from?” he asked. The museum was funded by a Italian-based NGO. Gauteng Sports, Arts, Culture and Recreation Department spokesperson Nomazwe Ntlokwana was unsure if her office would step in to rescue the project, but promised to consult with relevant officials. Kumalo’s son Sizwe, who used to help his father to run the museum, said the museum was “malfunctioning” mainly due to theft and delays in the execution of his father’s estate, which would help to bring it back to life. In his will, Kumalo gave the museum to his six children from his first marriage to own. He instructed that his son Mzilikazi, from a second marriage, manage it. His estate, which included five properties, life policies, two vehicles, photographs and shares in the Umnotho weSizwe Group, was divided among his children and last wife. “We have been struggling to get my father’s estate since his death. The executor tells us he has been given a run around by Umnotho,” said Sizwe. Umnotho director Tshepo Molebatsi said Kumalo’s shares were sold and the funds were paid almost two years ago to a bank account Kwape had provided. “That matter was settled a long time ago,” he said. The Star