The urban clothing brand famously known as Magents was conceived and gave birth to its first collection in the 1990s. Some familiar faces in the entertainment industry were musicians Stoan Seate, Kwesta, rapper Reason and actress Khanya Mkangisa. According to Herman Pillat, chairperson of Wear SA, the brand’s clothes are manufactured by Trade Call Investments, the largest clothing producer in the country. The company produces clothes for Woolworths, Truworths, Superdry as well as Edcon. “Wear SA has made a conscious decision to support South African designers. The problem is that while local designers have talent, they lack resources. That is where we come in,” he said. COOL CAT: On the catwalk with some of the latest designs from the Magents clothing line. One of the designers, who calls himself Thei Thei, said he had been designing for six years. He said it was an honour for him to be with the brand and that his designs were inspired by everything he encounters in life. “My art is inspired by what I hear and see every day. The faces I meet and people I meet. That is all the inspiration I need,” he said. The founder of the brand, Didier de Villiers, said that until 2009 the brand was manufactured in Vietnam. The brand has since dressed up celebrities like the late Mandoza, Tumi Molekane, Mzekezeke and the cast of the soapie Backstage.  De Villiers said South African designers who wanted to showcase their talent should feel free to contact him, as he was always willing to help. “We are not only showcasing African fabrics and workmanship but have gone as far as to create our own patterns and prints,” he said. There are already four stores countrywide - in Montecasino, Canal Walk, Menlyn and Ballito. The fifth will be opened in Gateway on Saturday. Ernst Alex, who has been an artist for 15 years, said he was impressed with the garments. “There is a lot of passion and creativity that goes into the production of the brand. It is absolutely good quality and truly signifies the spirit of ubuntu,” said Alex.