Lesufi said both the schools and police were not doing enough to protect pupils who were sexually assaulted. He spoke following revelations that a pupil from a secondary school in Mamelodi and another from a Benoni school were raped during school events. Prior to visiting the Mamelodi school, Lesufi was fresh from addressing parents and the community of the primary school in Soweto where 87 pupils had allegedly been sexually assaulted by a school patroller. He has since suspended the entire senior management of the school. Lesufi then went to Mamelodi, where a 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by an uninvited scholar patroller at a matric dance event held in Bronkhorstspruit on September 30. “I received an anonymous message on Friday indicating that there was an incident at this particular school during a matric dance event. “The parent and the child were urging me to investigate because they suspected that this information was not made available to the parents of the school and they are picking it up from their own children,” he said. Lesufi said a 28-year-old suspect had been caught in the act, according to a report he was given when he met  community leaders, the principal and the pupil’s guardian. Lesufi said the school noticed the pupil was not accounted for when they did a roll call, and that was when the principal came upon the suspect at the event. She asked him what he was doing at a school event and how he got there. It is alleged that the perpetrator took advantage of the victim, who was allegedly under the influence of alcohol reportedly brought by three boys to the school function. It was reported that the girl went missing and was found by a teacher indulging in sexual activities. The department is to provide the necessary support and counselling to all pupils affected by the incident. In addition, the patroller’s services are to be terminated immediately and all the boys who brought alcohol to the school function face being suspended. The victim will be placed in another school and supported with all necessary study material. After the confrontation, the pupil confessed that something had happened. On the basis of that, the principal notified the parents, even though the child was unhappy that the principal wanted to take the matter further. “They went to open a case the following day, and unfortunately the police station turned them back; they were told to go to another police station because the incident happened in Bronkhorstspruit. I am emphasising that point because it is a point that I am completely disgusted with,” he said. A case was later opened with a police station in Bronkhorstspruit and the suspect arrested. He is due to appear in the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate’s Court tomorrow. Lesufi then rushed to Benoni, where a pupil was allegedly raped during a school outing at the weekend. Police there were also accused of failing to act with urgency. Lungelwa Zwane, chairperson of the parliamentary committee on basic  education, said the schooling environment must at all times be a place of safety, where children were able to learn without hindrance.