With the Met Gala theme, celebrities could be as creative as they wanted to for the exclusive event held at new “it” venue, Rockets in Bryanston, on Monday. SA Fashion Week is celebrating 20 years in the business of fashion. Some celebrities collaborated with designers who will be showcasing their autumn/winter collections this week. Singer Donald dressed in Palse, while Sinazo Yolwa gave us a good view of her bosoms in a Rubicon number. Rapper Solo looked dapper in a Tailor Me suit and Major League DJs got the party started in House of Ole.  Black seemed to be the colour of choice as Thembisa Mdoda, Kelly Khumalo, Nomuzi Mabena and Simphiwe Dana rocked the colour in true style. Mdoda, who recently won a style award, looked regal in a sheer and ruffled dress by Rubicon. She finished off her look with a golden braid. Gert-Johan Coetzee walked the carpet with model Thando Hopa. They were a breath of fresh air in bright pink and orange to shake up the darker colours.  We loved Uzalo and The Queen actor Kay Sibiya’s pink suit. He wore rose-tinted sunglasses to add that bit of elegance. Warren Masemola’s fashion sense is always a cut above the rest. His tailored look from Touch of Bling made all the men who walked the carpet look rather dull. Actress and TV presenter Khanya Mkangisa mixed it up this time. She put her petite frame in a sparkling minidress from Keys Fashion. Her Tropika Island of Treasure fellow contestant Tumi Voster went for a forest green number that covered the right bits and left enough for the imagination to wander. Singer Thabsie Biyela wore a midnight blue jumpsuit from Palse that looked amazing on her tiny figure. Khumalo was one of the ladies who chose to wear black. Her Touch of Bling gown was a luxurious velvet dream. Cici, who has been in the news for her domestic abuse case against Arthur Mafokate, was all smiles as she hit the red carpet in a blonde bob and a sequined gown. Mabena’s body was the perfect mannequin for her Keys Fashion ensemble. The delicate dress sat beautifully on her skin, and though understated, the garment sparkled in all the right places. The ever gorgeous Bontle Modiselle was Spanish chic in her JJ Schoeman corset and skirt two-piece.  Also in attendance were Nadia Nakai, LeAnne Dlamini, Ms Cosmo and Kat Sinivasan. A special mention goes to Dineo Ranaka who looked African glam in a three-piece that was to die for. The radio presenter has been updating her look recently and it has paid off. Her green print suit was the talk of the evening. Last night saw the first day of SA Fashion Week kick off at the Sandton City Rooftop with showcases from AKJP; the Sunglass Hut New Talent Search 2017, which will see the winner jet off to London Fashion Week next year; and the Woolworths Style By SA Capsule Collection. Tonight, guests will be treated to collections from Liz Ogumbo, Sun Goddess, African Style Story and Rubicon, among others. @mane_mpi