Barbie Blank and Sasha Gates from the hit US E! show WAGS LA were in South Africa last week to promote the latest instalment, set to air next month. The pair, who are both married to sportsmen, have been part of the reality series for three seasons now. This involves all aspects of their lives being played out for all to watch on television screens across the world, including South Africa, where they have an impressive fan base. While they admit that this is challenging at times, they say they have no regrets about being part of the show. This is despite the widespread public criticism that reality stars and celebrities in general face as a result of many aspects of their lives being made public. Blank, a former WWE wrestler, told The Star that the only way to combat negative comments was simply to ignore them. “In every reality show you will have criticism and ‘haters’ on your social media saying negative things, but I think that you just get used to it. “If you don’t respond, they just go away because they are just looking for a reaction,” she said. Her fellow WAG (meaning wives and girlfriends) Gates, who is married to American football star Antonio Gates, agreed and added: “If they didn’t care they wouldn’t even say anything. “You have to get a thick skin, as people are constantly looking at you. “One week they love you, the next week they hate your guts, but over time you just get used to it.” But both stars concede that being part of the show is challenging. “There are times when you’re having a bad day or arguing with your significant other, and you wish the cameras weren’t in your face,” said Blank. “But we signed up for this, and for the world to see our lives and everything we are going through.” They each decided to be part of the show for different reasons. For Blank, it was to allow the fans she collected during her time as a wrestler to see her in a personal capacity. Gates said she wasn’t looking for the opportunity when it came knocking, but she didn’t want to pass it up. “You never know unless you try, and I didn’t want to miss out on something great,” she said. Over the span of three seasons, they both agree that they have a group of WAGs who all offer something different. “We all bring so many different things to the table; we have different personalities and are all from different walks of life,” said Gates. “I think that this allows a lot of people to relate to us on different levels.” For this season, they both say there is much for viewers to look forward to, including enough drama, 
witnessing them travel to exotic locations and dealing with their romantic relationships. The pair spent a week in South Africa, where they
visited Joburg and Cape Town. Although it was a work trip, they said they were looking forward to enjoying what the country had to offer. They were excited about going on a safari and visiting the Nelson Mandela Museum as well as the Cape wineries. WAGS LA season three premieres on November 6 at 8pm on E! (DStv channel 124).