It was a sunny day in Braamfontein and Ncube had set up his stall, trading his clothing label - Vintage Zionist - as a part-time gig. “I started trading two weeks before I met Mandy and it was in my own capacity, without a store.” Newman, business partner and co-founder, said she bought something from him that needed to be altered, but knew from their first interaction that they were going to do something together. “We started chatting from there, then met up the following year in February and four years later, here we are in a great partnership. We argue and fight, but that is the nature of the business,” she said. They are showcasing pieces from their label at SA Fashion Week (SAFW) next Friday, in collaboration with global music festival, AFROPUNK. “AFROPUNK found us at the Neighbourgoods Market and the founders, Matthew and Jocelyn, were surprised such a brand existed in South Africa. They said when they conceived the idea of AFROPUNK, my brand was what they had in mind,” said Ncube. Newman added that the brands suited each other well. “Aesthetically and visually, this collaboration is going to be huge and one for the books. They’ve (AFROPUNK) never had a clothing range actually curated in the umbrella of AFROPUNK. “All the designs will be by Vintage Zionist, inspired by AFROPUNK.”  Ncube said for SAFW, they will be showcasing their autumn/winter collection and previewing their spring/summer collection for AFROPUNK. That collection will go on sale at AFROPUNK festivals worldwide, starting at the two-day festival at Constitution Hill in December. “Our biggest project right now is getting ready for the festival and getting in the orders for next year. We are taking our next step in the business - the VZ online store - and that’s going to be exciting,” said Newman. Ncube’s love for things that have meaning and depth in culture and religion led to the label name. “I’m an introvert and I find excitement in my work. I try to find it in other things too and push boundaries in my work and my design process.” The collection for SAFW is a monochromatic range and sets a canvas of doodled artworks and slogans applied on to the clothing for the outspoken and opinionated AFROPUNK off-centre kid. “Photographic images of elaborate punk hairstyles, tattoos and piercings from African tribesmen and women on ripped and distressed T-shirts will graphically tell the story of the origins of the PUNK aesthetic. “Vintage Zionist is supposed to be like a religion or cult, that’s how we want to build it. We want to build a belief system Vintage comes from the fact that most of our garments, namely the leather jacket, is from recycling. “It’s upcycled leather, so it’s vintage. Zionist comes essentially from the term rebirth, it’s used in different cultures, groups and religions - a name that embodies and means so much to a lot of people. It’s the rebirth of apparel.” Newman said vintage would remain the core style throughout their range and throughout the business. The pair are currently filming their first reality TV show called Vintage Z on Fox Life Africa. The show centres on what happens behind the scenes in the VZ studio on Siemert Road, Doornfontein, part of the Maboneng Precinct. “It’s time consuming, but fun. We always have to push and find the extra energy. The show is about the brand and the personalities behind it. “I find it rewarding to see the brand on TV, we want to take it to the next level and be seen across the world for people to see what we do.” Their aim is to show people that their brand is more than just fashion. “We are selling a lifestyle of being responsible in fashion and it would be good if people take from VZ the fact that old is not bad, you don’t have to throw it away. “Our aesthetic is about revamping and reviving things, seeing them new again, seeing things differently, sustainable and responsible fashion,” said Ncube. Their range will debut at the Sandton City Rooftop at 9pm on Friday October 27.  @mane_mpi 