The latest Woolworths Style by SA range was revealed on the catwalk during the first night of SA Fashion Week (SAFW) at the upmarket Sandton City on Tuesday evening. The show was packed to capacity with some of the country’s biggest celebrities sitting in the front row of the fashion show. This included one of South Africa’s most stylish women, media personality Bonang Matheba, who wowed the crowd with her bold, all-red attire, complete with leather pants, a fur coat and stiletto heels.  She was joined by other A-listers such as Enhle Mbali Maphumulo, wearing a captivating Gert Johan Coetzee turquoise design with leather pants, Jessica Nkosi in a royal blue dress shirt and Maps Maponyane wearing all black. Despite the fashion on the red carpet preceding the show, all eyes were on the runway when the Autumn/Winter 2018 Style By SA collection was showcased. The local designers who showcased as part of the Woolworths collection impressed the crowd so much that they received erupting applause and a standing ovation. The designers who collaborated on the ranges included AKJP, Cleo Droomer, Ephymol, Ifefe, Coetzee, Selfi, Lukhanyo Mdingi, Sindiso Khumalo, Rich Mnisi and Thebe Magugu. Meanwhile, acclaimed designer Maria McCloy provided the accessories which completed the looks for the ranges. Each collection offers fashionistas a variety of stylish options, from streetwear, to glamorous attires and office attire.  All the pieces came from either The Better Cotton, the Glam or Resort collections which together made up the Woolworths Style by SA range. The Better Cotton collection, designed by Mnisi, Magugu, Selfi and AKJP, was an example of such an eco-friendly initiative. The cotton used to make the clothes for this range was sourced from the SADC region and underwent a dyeing process that uses only eco-friendly chemicals. Better Cotton has also been developed as a sustainable solution by The Better Cotton Initiative programme, which seeks to transform cotton by advocating for the well-being of the people who produce it and the environment in which it grows. Although the range sought to decrease the harmful effects it has on the environment, it didn’t skimp on style.