The Hillbrow tower is a famous Joburg landmark, which forms part of the City of Joburg’s official logo. Formerly called the JG Strijdom Tower, it was the tallest tower on the continent at the time. Construction started in June 1968 and took three years to complete at a cost of R2million. The tower was initially named after JG Strijdom, who was prime minister of the country from 1954 to 1958. In 2005, it was renamed the Telkom Tower. It had a restaurant on one of the top floors, but it was closed to the public for security reasons in 1978.  Brixton Tower  The Brixton Tower, formerly called the  Albert Hertzog Tower, is now known as the Sintech Tower. It was originally built for FM radio transmitters. It was built in 1961 and took a year to complete. Brixton Tower was the tallest man-made structure in Africa in its time, until it was overtaken by the Hillbrow Tower. To this day, the tower is used to broadcasts some 18 FM programmes and about seven TV stations. Up to 1982, it was open to the public, but was eventually closed for security reasons.  Ponte City Ponte City, another well-known inner-city building on the Hillbrow/Berea border, was built in 1975 at a height of 173m and was the tallest residential skyscraper in Africa. The current Vodacom neon sign which is wrapped across the top of the building is one the biggest signs in the southern hemisphere. During the late 1980s, squatters and criminals invaded the building. The inside of the circular structure was filled about five-storeys high with refuse dumped by illegal residents. In May 2007, the building was purchased by private developers who managed to evict the illegal tenants and cleaned it out. The plans were to turn it, once again, into 467 upmarket apartments. Three top-floor apartments were refurbished with much media fanfare, but this failed to materialise because of tough economic times. However, the building is strictly managed today and is neat and clean on the inside.  Carlton Centre  This is another city landmark, one of the few from which tourists and locals can get a 360-degree view of Joburg from 50 storeys up. Construction started in 1967 and the building officially opened in 1973. It started as a five-star hotel in which many famous people stayed, including former US secretary of state Henry Kissinger; former president of France, François Mitterrand; Hillary Clinton; and former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher. The late US singer Whitney Houston and Rolling Stones vocalist Mick Jagger were among others. When the exodus of businesses from the Joburg CBD took place in the 1990s, the hotel closed its doors in 1997 and stood empty.  Mandela Bridge The Nelson Mandela bridge is built over the railway tracks in Braamfontein and has become another significant landmark. It was completed in 2003 and is the largest cable-stayed bridge in southern Africa.