Johannesburg - Just a day after commemorating World Mental Health day, mental health will be in the spotlight as an alternative dispute resolution arbitration into the Life Esidimeni saga begins.
Families of psychiatric patients are expected to give testimony in front of former Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke when the dispute resolution process between the families and the Gauteng Health Department starts. The arbitration process is one of the recommendations contained in a report by the health ombudsman, Professor Malegapuru Makgoba. He found that at least 100 patients died following forced removals from various Life Esidimeni homes last year as part of cost-cutting measures. Patients died of thirst, hunger and cold after being moved from Esidimeni. Makgoba recommended that all the NGOs that took in the patients and in which they died be shut down and investigated by the police. Obakeng van Dyk, head of the arbitrator’s office, said so far, 56 families had come forward and more were expected to contact the dispute resolution body. On what will happen today, Van Dyk said: “The arbitrator might call witnesses from the bereaved families to hear their side of the story.” The arbitration process is expected to go on for three weeks. Section27 lawyer Sasha Stevenson said the families were hoping to get closure from the arbitration. She said what they wanted was to find out what happened to their family members; compensation owed to them; an apology; and counselling services. “Families are relieved the arbitration is finally starting because it has been a long haul. Many people have the death certificate that says their family members died of natural causes when they clearly did not,” Stevenson said. She said one of the witnesses they wanted to appear before Justice Moseneke was former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu, whose decision it was to move the patients from Esidimeni. She resigned in February after Makgoba’s report was released. Stevenson said: “We want to call various witnesses, but have indicated we want the former MEC to also come because she made the decision to move the patients.” Some of the witnesses expected to be called during the three-week hearing include those who ran the NGOs and Department of Health officials. In July, President Jacob Zuma authorised the Special Investigating Unit to investigate matters relating to unlawful and improper conduct on the part of 28 NGOs that housed psychiatric patients. The Star