Durban - The long anticipated storm finally made its way to Durban, leaving a trail of destruction as it went along. Trees and powerlines were knocked over and cars submerged in flood water after flash flooding. Several suburbs on the south coast were plunged into darkness as heavy winds battered the city. Major thoroughfares in the city came to standstill as visibility was reduced to zero in some parts. Parts of Higginson highway was closed due to zero visibility. A huge tree also fell onto a section of Higginson Highway near the Mobeni Heights cemetery. Daily News reporters who were stuck in traffic on the M4 southbound said visibility was down to zero and they could only see the flashing hazard lights of the car in front of them. The wind speed was so intense that the vehicle shook. Trucks delivering cargo and goods to stores were also stuck in the traffic. There were no cars travelling on the M4 north into the city. According to the South African Weather Service, thunderstorms and heavy rainfall were expected in KwaZulu-Natal. KZN EMS on the other hand said the province will experience localised flooding along coastal areas and urged residents not to cross swollen and flooding rivers. Areas closer to Durban were already experiencing adverse weather conditions, before it reached the city.   Crazy wind & rain in Durban at the moment. Winds are so strong. #Durbanstorm #storm pic.twitter.com/nfKokWIrTI  — Vaughan_ZA (@Vaughanza) October 10, 2017  Sunil Bridgmohan, Isipingo councillor said he is worried about Isipingo beach. The police have to open the mouth before the area by Isipingo beach floods. He also said the transit camps housing informal settlements have also been flooded when rivers burst their bank.  Andre Beetge from Amanzimtoti said, “Toti is looking bad. There is flooding everywhere and trees have fallen down. The old CBD railway station is flooded and so is the civic centre.” Road users were finding it difficult to drive in the rain and some residents found themselves trapped in flooded areas.   Jeffels road #flooding in #durban #kzntraffic pic.twitter.com/O9XVvIgKI0  — Quakes24 (@quakes24) October 10, 2017  There is an overturned ambulance on the N2 south past Umgababa. There are also gale force winds in the area. The bad weather was being experienced from Amanzimtoti, through to Durban and all the way up to uMhlanga. Daily News