Speaking at Durban’s Curries Fountain Stadium during a Young Communist League of South Africa rally, the deputy president said graft had hampered the country’s economic growth. “All those who are corrupt are going to run to hide in a big hole because we are going to be hunting them down,” he said. Ramaphosa said he was concerned about the status of Eskom, Transnet, Prasa and various water boards across the country that have lost huge amounts of money through corruption. Without mentioning anyone by name, Ramaphosa said money had been stolen from state companies and given to certain people and families without a good reason. He said he would make sure that this comes to an end. “We are saying all this should come to an end, and it will come to a stop whether they like it or not. “We are going to make sure that our state-owned enterprises are going to work properly, and they are going to have the right people working in them, they are going to have right policies, they are going to have absolutely fantastic financial management. “Corruption will be brought to an end in our state-owned enterprises,” he said. He said his administration would drive economic transformation and land redistribution, but he did not elaborate on how radical he would be in his approach to the transformation. “We are going to work day and night to come up with a clear strategy to transform the economy. The economy is owned by a few entities. “We must now make sure that we spread the ownership of the economy of our country so that it is owned by the majority and not just the few,” he said. While in Durban yesterday, Ramaphosa had in the morning attended an eThekwini Community Church service where MPL Vusi Dube prayed for the ANC to be saved from corruption and infighting. In the evening, he attended a gathering of the South African Muslim Network, where he requested a similar prayer. Ramaphosa was at the weekend nominated by the Western Cape Gabby Shapiro branch to be president. The branch held their annual meeting over the weekend where they nominated members of the national executive committee who they recommend as leaders to be elected at the December elective conference and leaders of the ANC in 2019. Gabby Shapiro branch secretary Given Sebei said they were confident that the nominated people would represent the party in a satisfactory manner on a national level. “We are highly confident, that’s why all of us, as members and supporters of the branch, had to sit down and select comrades who can continue transforming our society,” he said. ANC national executive committee member Lindiwe Sisulu was nominated as Ramaphosa’s deputy. Meanwhile, another presidential hopeful, Zweli Mkhize, has described as mischievous politicking that he is a “Plan B”
candidate handpicked by President Jacob Zuma to lead the party if Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma’s campaign fails.  “This detracts from my goal to unite the ANC and South Africa. Those who have resorted to this kind of politicking have a vested interest in destroying the ANC. “Please let’s give Dlamini Zuma credit. She is a political leader in her own right and experienced enough to know what she wants. Why would she stake her claim in this race if I were Plan B all along?” Mkhize said there was a tendency among those opposed to Zuma to create a perception that anyone who comes from KZN must be colluding with the president. “They claim that anyone who does not show public dissent with what is happening in the ANC must be a ‘Zuma man’,” he added.