This was after a study found that Halloween costumes inspired one in three women to engage in an extramarital affair.  The survey was conducted by Victoria Milan, a dating website for married and attached people looking to have an affair. The findings were based on responses from 9307 of Victoria Milan’s active female members, including those in South Africa. The research also discovered that 66% of the women who were part of the survey had declared Halloween a sexy event and said dressing up for it turns them on. "Horny" was the response from the overwhelming majority of participants who were asked how Halloween made them feel. The website’s founder and chief executive Sigurd Vedal said the reason why Halloween was so appealing to women was because it allowed them to be creative and let their wildest fantasies out. “Halloween is the day that allows everyone to express themselves creatively,” he pointed out. “Those who are sexually charged take it to another level and it becomes an evening of intrigue, mystique and fantasy, generating a more adult version of trick or treat.” Vedal added that the results of the survey also found that some women use October 31, when Halloween is celebrated, as an opportunity to be spontaneous.  “One out of every three women say that just like Christmas, Halloween is a great excuse to have a ‘free night’ where anything can happen, most likely an affair with someone who happens to be in the right place at the right time.” Vedal said the man at the receiving end of a woman’s Halloween fantasy would also be pleasantly delighted. “The lucky man can expect his wildest fantasies to come true in the form of sweet, sexy and a few scary costumes that are most popular with women looking to indulge in some Halloween hanky-panky.” The Victoria Milan survey also questioned participants in the survey on the most popular Halloween costumes this year, according to women who took part in the survey. A sexy nurse topped the costume list, followed by Catwoman, and in joint third place were zombies, mummies and monsters. Other popular costumes for women were voluptuous vampires, an air hostess, a Playboy bunny and a policewoman. A woman who didn’t want to be named told The Star she agreed with the findings of the study to some extent. She has been in a serious relationship for a number of years, but admits that she has engaged in extramarital affairs. “I won't necessary look to cheat on Halloween, but I do understand why it would be appealing to be a little naughty on that day. "You get to dress up and almost be someone else,” she pointed out.