Two readers contacted me in recent weeks about being billed for “content services”, which they insist they never activated. They want to know how the Wasps managed to bill them with their network provider, Vodacom’s approval. Dougie Douglas, who had R1000 billed to his Vodacom account over two months by members of the Wireless Application Service Providers’ Association (Waspa), is fuming: “(Vodacom cannot) provide proof of my subscription, or provide any invoices for my alleged usage of their services. "Vodacom has no right to add unlawful charges to my account with them.” Douglas, who has a debit order set up for the contract, says his bill has been relatively uniform, varying by no more than R100 each month. He doesn’t use up all his allotted airtime, data or SMSes, but two months ago he found additional charges in excess of R400. When he checked his itemised billing, he discovered he was suddenly being charged for content services. “If you google movie times at a cinema, these services might hack your IP address and then subscribe you unwittingly and unknowingly to their site and charge you for this unwanted service. "Usually a pop-up would appear on your screen and even if you click, 'do not accept or decline', you would be subscribed. I was told there is no way that Vodacom can stop this, as most of these sites are situated in foreign countries,” he says. I asked Icasa spokesperson Paseka Maleka about the regulations. She explained: “Icasa published the regulations that set out the code of conduct for premium rated services in November 2016. The regulations state that, in case a premium-rated service is provided by means of (an SMS or MMS) communication, or through an unstructured supplementary service data (USSD), end-users shall be sent a notification informing them of the cost and terms and conditions associated with the service upon initiation of the service. (These) premium-rated services shall be offered subject to a 'double opt-in’ process. "The SMS subscription confirmation message, as contained in the double opt-in process, shall include confirmation the end-user has been subscribed to the service; the description and name of the service concerned; contact details of the premium rate service provider; all costs levied against the end-user for using the service; and details of how to unsubscribe and terminate communication from the service.” Maleka encouraged consumers to lodge formal complaints with Icasa for investigation to determine non-compliance, which Douglas did. He was told Icasa didn’t have jurisdiction over Waspa members. However devious the ways of some Wasps are in ensnaring consumers, his cellular network was billing him for unsubstantiated content services from unknown entities, which are subscribed to Waspa, a voluntary self-regulatory body with more than 300 members. Waspa’s code of conduct, which applies to all members, has been made compulsory by Telkom Mobile, Cell C, MTN and Vodacom. Douglas wants to know why, without being sent a proper account and proof of subscription, Vodacom was passing on the costs to the consumer. “This is tantamount to me filling my vehicle up at a filling station for R600, but, after filling up, I see there are added charges of R400. "I then get told by the attendant that the station has an added service of selling oxygen and, by filling with them, I acknowledge silently that any add-on services I must pay for. Or Checkers charges me extra for smelling the food as I pass the aisles. “Can Vodacom please inform me on whose instruction these costs were added to my billing?” Douglas informed me on Friday that he had been refunded by one of the Wasps, which also unsubscribed him, and was promised a refund by another that day. Both Waspa members claimed he had visited their sites and subscribed to their services. Diana (surname withheld for professional reasons) is similarly peeved: “In May this year, I was informed that Vodacom was paying on my behalf a daily tariff to an unknown-to-me entity (Phone-Crystal). The payments were being made since November last year, without my knowledge or authorisation. I had a debit order with Vodacom for a considerable time. “Icasa and the fraud division of Vodacom have not replied to any of my e-mails, neither has Vodacom’s (so-called) customer care, other than quick replies and acknowledging receipt. This whole thing apparently started from a click-baiting advert that appeared on my cellphone, which I could not get rid of; Vodacom did so in the end.” Diana feels Vodacom’s abused her trust as consumer: “They paid Oxygen8 without my permission, authority or agreement. "Then Vodacom and Waspa, which is paid by the Wasp fraternity, wanted me to deal with Oxygen8, whom I had no knowledge of or any contractual agreement with, hence my refusal to have anything to do with them. "I am still utterly angry at the anguish and frustration I experienced. This is not a case of, ‘Oh well, it was sorted out in the end.' The question remains - at what cost to the customer?” Diana, whose credit record has hitherto been untainted, was listed at the credit bureau. And she never even benefited from the “content”. The problem seems rife. Many consumers have taken to social media to complain about being billed for content to which they never subscribed, many accusing cellular networks of colluding with the Wasps, because they are billing consumer accounts and when questioned about the debits, they are told the debits can’t be reversed by the networks. In effect, the message to the consumer is toffee to you - we’ll bill you, but if you have an issue with unauthorised content services, get your refund from the Wasp. Vodacom failed to respond to my queries by deadline, but Waspa did. It has a complaints handling procedure, ICT lawyers and an appeals panel. Waspa general manager Ilonka Badenhorst explained: “The Waspa code of conduct has for a very long time required that all subscription services contain a flow, where the consumer confirms that they would like to acquire the product or service on two separate occasions. The second step is hosted and managed by the mobile network operator. “In the event that a consumer believes that a company is offering services which are or may potentially be in breach of the provisions of the Waspa code of conduct, the consumer can lodge a complaint on (our) website or contact Waspa.” All Waspa members are required to ensure their systems are safeguarded and protected from being exploited or vulnerable to interference by third parties, she said. Why some Wasps were still seemingly bypassing the double opt-in process is unclear, though, and the networks seem to be disinclined to explain the billing. Contract users with itemised billing can check their account each month. But for pre-paid users, it’s tricky to figure out why all your data and airtime are disappearing. Badenhorst said that both types of consumers can manage content subscriptions through SMS or USSD codes: Cell C: Dial *133*1# and from there you can block content billing. MTN: Dial *141*5# and select services to unsubscribe from. Telkom: Dial 180 and follow the prompts. Vodacom: Send an SMS containing “STOP ALL” to 31050. “We recommend that (consumers) lodge a formal complaint with Waspa. All the applicable information will be reviewed and an independent adjudicator will make a ruling on whether the member followed the required procedures or not. (If)  a member acted in contravention of the Waspa Code, it will be sanctioned.”