Miss South Africa 2017 Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has achieved yet another accolade during her reign as the country’s beauty queen and ambassador. She will feature in this year’s SA Sports Illustrated Swimwear Issue. This special edition is a recognised brand within the modelling and fashion industry. It was incorporated into the global World Swimsuit (WS) brand in 2014 and includes an international World Swimsuit Model Search and YouTube Channel. The prominent publication is seen as a springboard for many celebrities as the international versions helped the careers of many now recognised faces. This includes Bar Refaeli, Xenia Deli, Sarah Stephens, Samantha Hoopes and Solveig Mõrk. Some of South Africa’s biggest exports, such as Candice Swanepoel, Genevieve Morton, Dominique Piek and Jessica Buchanan, were also featured in previous editions. In a bid to capture Nel-Peters in her element, she jetted to Mauritius last week for a photoshoot. She gave her more than 70000 Instagram followers a glimpse of the images when she posted several photographs of herself on the beach sporting a bikini. In one of the images, she is seen balancing on a motorboat on the shore while showing off her athletic figure in a red bikini. More images are expected to be released in the annual World Swimsuit Issue, which is set to be released on November 20. Apart from appearing in the annual World Swimsuit Issue 2017, which will also be distributed with the SA Rugby and SA Cricket magazines, fans can also expect an up close and personal account with the current Miss SA as she conducted interviews. These will be featured in the WS Television Special, screened on SuperSport and on the dedicated WS YouTube Channel. Co-founder of World Swimsuit and managing director of Netsport Media Aletha Carswell said Nel-Peters epitomises their brand. “Demi-Leigh embodies everything we promote as a brand - she is a healthy, fit and strong young woman who embraces her individuality and femininity,” she said. “We are very excited to be able to shoot South Africa’s very own Demi-Leigh as one of our World Swimsuit models this year, especially in lieu of the fact that she was featured as a World Swimsuit Rookie in 2016.” With the 22-year-old back from Mauritius, she is now getting ready to participate in the Miss Universe 2017 pageant, taking place next month. She previously told The Star that she is thrilled to fly the flag high for South Africa, the country she is proud to come from. “I am extremely excited and proud to represent our rainbow nation and cannot wait to wear the name ‘South Africa’ proudly across my chest,” she said. While Nel-Peters is competing in Miss Universe, Miss SA 2017 runner-up Adè van Heerden will also be hoping to make the nation proud when she participates in the Miss World pageant. This event is also expected to take place next month.