The restaurant chain is celebrating its 50th birthday, and the public has gone crazy for the three-day promotion that kicked off on Tuesday and ends on Thursday. For just R50, you can take your pick of 300g ribs, 200g rump or sirloin steak, or a chicken schnitzel at any Spur outlet in SA. The meals come with Spur’s customary chips and fried onions. Social media was buzzing with customers sharing pictures as they stood in long snaking queues.   However, some people claim they were short-changed by the specials. Ruben Crowie visited Rapid River Spur in Robertson and ordered a 200g steak special, but says the portion was much smaller than advertised. “This is false advertising, I never got what I paid for or what was promised, it’s a lot of k** if you ask me,” he posted on Facebook. “I was in a hurry and so I didn’t still want to complain to the manager but this is unacceptable, what do they take us for? You can’t promise the customer a lekker dite (tasty meal) for almost half the price and then trek us a dirty (deceive us) like this... whats this?!” Some hungry people stood in a queue for nearly two hours. Oscar Bougardt said: “I got to Blu Route Spur about 120 people in line, I said no thanks and went to Wembley for rooti (sic).” But Robin Suliman, 24, from Steenberg went to Spur in Kenilworth Centre and says it was worth the wait: “The wait was lengthy but the food was worth it, I had a 200g rump steak and it was really lekker... nothing was taken away.” Joyce Tshangela says she enjoyed her meal with good service from Spur in Pinelands. “The queue wasn’t long, there were about 40 people and we all waited patiently. My daughter complained about her food being cold but we enjoyed the meal of Spur ribs.” Some people made fun like comedian @Devdondidit who tweeted: “Just stood in a @Spur queue for 1 hour 15 minutes for the R50 special steak that’s so small, the cow who’s steak this is... is still alive!”   The CEO of Spur Corporation, Pierre van Tonder said they were ready for the rush. “We are fully stocked up and prepared to deal with the huge demand and we ask customers to be patient as we are able to serve everyone,” he said Spur did not respond to complaints about portion sizes. Daily Voice