This is despite at least one patient dying of hypothermia and severe dehydration at the Cullinan Care and Rehabilitation Centre. Social worker Daphney Ndhlovu took the stand at the Life Esidimeni alternative dispute resolution process yesterday, and said that although the centre had doubled its capacity from 150 to 267, there was no lack of food at the institution. The centre received the high volume of patients from Life Esidimeni when the Gauteng Health Department decided to move them due to budget cuts, resulting in at least 118 deaths. Two other NGOs, Anchor Care Centre and Siyabadinga, were opened on the premises to help deal with the number of patients. A few months later, the two NGOs shut down and the patients were readmitted to Cullinan. Psychiatric patient Busisiwe Shabalala died in June 2016 of hypothermia and severe dehydration. Former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke, heading the arbitration process, said: “I am trying to understand how a person is admitted to an institution and dies of dehydration in less than a month.” Ndhlovu said the centre offered patients four meals a day.  “Maybe she was one of the patients who arrived at Cullinan without medical records. We never experienced food or water shortages in the institution. There were no problems with feeding and water,” she said. At least eight Cullinan Care Centre patients died at NGOs. Ndhlovu said that when they handed over patients to the NGOs, she realised they didn’t have a professional nurse, doctor or social worker. Ndhlovu said she was unaware of the problems. “I was not part of that meeting. There was new staff in Cullinan.” Ndhlovu also said she was forced to help the NGOs get in contact with family members to inform them that their people had died even though she never worked on their cases. In one case, it was up to her to inform the family of Joseph Gumede that he had died - eight months after his death. Gumede used to be a patient at Cullinan and was transferred to Anchor, where he died. His family called Cullinan, looking for him, and when Ndhlovu went to enquire about his whereabouts, they didn’t know where he was. “I was asked to help look for him because Anchor did not have social workers and transport,” she testified. Gumede’s body was found at a Mamelodi hospital. “I had to go to the family and tell them he died. His sister said ‘Sisi, I will kill you’. I asked them not to kill the messenger. They were very upset,” Ndhlovu said. Gumede’s family members sobbed loudly during the testimony. She also admitted that before receiving patients from Life Esidimeni, the institution never dealt with schizophrenia and psychosis patients. Ndhlovu denied claims that Cullinan restricted families from visiting patients. “For me to restrict the family, I would not be doing justice to the patients,” she said. Moseneke asked Ndhlovu: “What killed them? How then did they die? What is your explanation?” Ndhlovu said most of the patients who died were those who were readmitted from Anchor and Siyabadinga. She claims she was unaware of the dire conditions at Siyabadinga, although the patients were housed in the yard. The inquiry continues.