Thulani, 39, and Xolani, 37, made their first appearance in court for the alleged double murder of his sister-in-law and her sister, and the attempted murder of her child in 2015 over a taxi business inheritance feud. The brother and taxi owner had been shot dead, sparking the alleged family feud over his five minibuses. Thulani was arrested on Monday while he was on duty at Germiston police station. His brother was arrested the following day in Daveyton, Ekurhuleni. The State prosecutor opposed the release of the accused because the police officer and his brother were charged with a schedule six offence, which is murder and attempted murder. In a brief session, the two men requested separate legal representation for the case. The matter was postponed to October 12, when they will make a formal bail application. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane said the State would have to prove that the police officer was involved in the alleged killing of his sister-in-law. “Two brothers with the surname Madida appeared in the Germiston Magistrate’s Court after they allegedly colluded to kill the sister-in-law. “One of the two is a police officer. “The State alleges that the killer cop later assisted to kill the sister-in-law. “As the NPA, we view these crimes seriously,” said Mjonondwane. A full gallery of family members and friends of the brothers were in court to support their loved ones, with a number of women crying when they saw them in the dock. A hostile reception from the family of the brothers greeted The Star’s attempts to get comment, with insults flying and comments about their brothers’ story being out in the public. A close relative of the brothers, who declined to speak to the media, shouted: “I don’t talk to journalists, nxa!” Thulani and Xolani will remain in police custody until their next court appearance. The sister-in-law left three children, aged five, seven and 10, at the time of her murder. A source close to the family told The Star that the children were under the care of their maternal grandmother in KwaZulu-Natal and had had a tough upbringing. “Labantwana bayahlupheka (these children are suffering),” said the source. The source described the killings as motivated by greed to take over the taxi business. @Zwane_2li2ls