They have also been asked to monitor domesticated birds and ferals living close to the zoo. Although the highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPA1) virus is not contagious to humans, the sick animals and carcasses should not be handled. Zoo officials should be called in to assist. This follows the announcement by the zoo yesterday that infected bird carcases were recovered from the Westdene and Emmarentia dams, Zoo Lake and and Johannesburg Zoo. JCPZ  spokesperson Jenny Moodley said the city facilities had been affected by the outbreak first detected in Limpopo and which has been spread by the seasonal migration of birds. Moodley said that from September 1 till now, the facility had recovered 548 carcasses and “most have tested positive for the strain of that avian influenza”. All the dead birds were being incinerated at the zoo and were being handled according to strict health and safety regulations, she said. Johannesburg Zoo also posted signs alerting visitors of the outbreak and urged them to use the sterilising foot baths at the zoo’s entrances and exits. Moodley said a female blue crane died suddenly at the zoo on August 28. A post-mortem was done and samples were taken to a laboratory. The results showed the bird had died of avian flu. The state vet inspected the enclosures and assessed the risks. He ordered that all birds in direct contact with the dead bird be euthanised immediately. These comprised a male blue crane and four marabou storks. In addition, a system aimed at monitoring the affected enclosures as well as those which had not yet been affected was designed and implemented. This entailed categorising the enclosures according to the risks apportioned to each. Birds’ enclosures have been divided into high, medium and low risk. Also, the state vet recommended that dedicated employees be assigned to specific enclosures, and urged controlling the use of and accessibility to the animal kitchen by staff who might unintentionally bring the microbes closer to where animal feed is stored or prepared. The movement of vehicles in and out of the facility are to be closely monitored and restricted. Vehicles might need to be disinfected. Moodley said that under normal situations, the main way of controlling notifiable diseases would have been to cull all birds within a certain radius. However, given the fact that the zoo houses endangered, threatened and at-risk species, the state vet agreed to find measures of controlling the spread of the disease. The zoo is monitoring deaths and sicknesses to see if the disease spreads. In July, bird flu cases were discovered on two commercial chicken farms in Gauteng and Mpumalanga. Residents who have concerns can contact jcp@jhbcityparks.com or call 082 906 1515. @annacox The Star