Mars Petcare, known for brands such as Pedigree and  Whiskas, along with its sister company Royal Canin, have partnered with the Soweto Animal Rescue and Advisory Centre (Sarac), Takealot.com and Paws pet shop in Soweto to host an outreach programme in celebration of World Animal Day. The pet-loving community of Soweto has been invited to attend the event on Saturday. The aim is to engage with pet owners and talk about nutrition and how to care for their pets. Vets will be on site at the event to perform free health screenings, vaccinations and dipping for dogs. It is hoped at least 200 dogs will be vaccinated on the day. Pet owners can expect a fun-filled day including the SAPS police dog unit demonstration, a dog breed show and lots more. About 10000 bags of dog food, worth about R2million, will be donated at the show. “We are committed to educating South Africans about the importance of proper pet nutrition and responsible pet ownership,” said Mars Petcare sub-Saharan Africa corporate affairs director Tumi Masekela. “World Animal Day gives us the perfect opportunity to partner with amazing groups such as Sarac, and give pet owners the motivation to feed their pets with high-quality pet food to keep their pets healthy and happy. "Pets offer so much more than companionship. "Studies have shown that pets have positive effects on the health of their owners, especially the elderly and young children. Pets also enhance early childhood development and have even been shown to improve the behaviour of children with autism,” added Masekela. “We want to educate all pet owners that taking care of the health of your pet is essential, and that a healthy pet means a healthy life for yourself as well,” she emphasised. Royal Canin marketing manager Tarryn Day said: “Soweto pet owners will be happy to know that the first pet shop in Soweto has just opened. "We are thrilled to have helped in establishing Paws pet shop in Mofolo in conjunction with our sister company. "This is a first for Sowetan residents and one that we hope will grow further to ensure that cats and dogs receive the right nutrition and have a choice of foods to suit their pet’s age, breed and lifestyle.” The store is located at 1086 Kunene Street, Rockville. World Animal Day, which is celebrated every year on October 4, began in 1931 to highlight the plight of endangered animals, and has since evolved into a day to honour all the animals of the world. The Soweto dog show starts at 10am. Entry for adults is R10 and free for children. All proceeds will be donated to Sarac. @annacox