This as two suspects appeared in Bellville Magistrate’s Court on charges of murder. According to the National Prosecuting Authority, the 47-year-old man and 32-year-old woman arrested would face further charges when they next appear next month. NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said: “I can confirm the two accused made a brief appearance at the Bellville Regional Court this morning (on Monday).The matter was postponed to November 24 for a formal bail application,” he said. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said Kemper was reported missing at Rondebosch police station, by his widow last Tuesday. “The investigation by detectives of Rondebosch police led to the arrest of two suspects, a 47-year-old male and a 32-year-old female, who were taken in for questioning and detained on a charge of kidnapping,” Van Wyk said. “Information was received regarding a decapitated body of a male found under a bridge at Touwsriver on October 27, about 11am. "Through the investigation of Rondebosch detectives, the two suspects were linked to the missing person, kidnapping and disappearance of the victim.” He said forensics confirmed the body belonged to Kemper. Reports said that the 50-year-old IT professional and entrepreneur was hijacked at an ATM in Claremont. The Cape Times contacted his wife, Melanie Kemper, who directed our enquiries to his employers during this difficult time for her family. Kemper was managing director of Infovest South Africa, an international software business and a subsidiary of UK-based company StatPro. StatPro’s chief executive Justin Wheatley said: “This senseless tragedy has left all of us numb with shock and disbelief. "Robin, who was a good friend of mine and to many people across StatPro, and also very well known throughout the South African investment management community. "We are providing all the support we can to Robin’s family at this terrible time. We mourn his loss deeply and he will be missed very much.” He said Kemper was a big personality, well loved by a large circle of friends and was a loving father to his two children and two step-children. Wheatley would not be drawn on a possible motive for the crime. Recently released statistics by the South African Police Service showed a 77.5% increase in hijackings since 2011. “The decrease of a mere 0.93% (502) incidents in theft of motor vehicle and motorcycles does not justify the increase of 14.48% (2115) in carjackings, which places the community at greater risk due to firearms being used in these forms of crime,” crime analysts said recently. Cape Times