“We are friendly people but nobody has the right to work against the police,” said Mbalula after a visit to Vanderbijlpark following the recent violent attack on members of the SAPS. Yesterday he thanked the police in the Vanderbijlpark area for doing a "thankless job". He was joined by Acting Police Commissioner Lieutenant-General Lesetja Mothiba and the mayor of Emfuleni, Simon Mofokeng, to inspect a now vacant drug den, and addressed members of the SAPS in the area. Mbalula said there had been
a number of arrests made in various categories, and the police had now cleared the street and tracked down a number of drug pedlars who had moved to the Joburg CBD. “The police have reacted sharply, ensuring that we wipe the streets of the so-called drug pedlars. Some of them we are tracing as far as Hillbrow and Kempton Park. We are on their footsteps. One person has also been deported back to Nigeria for criminal activities here in the Vaal,” said Mbalula. African Diaspora Forum (ADF) chairperson Marc Gbaffou said: “We condemn the attack of the police, as it was too extreme from those who attacked the police The police are the state and it is a crime to go against the state. But any assault against migrants by police should be put to book as well.” Gbaffou added that the ADF would like to make sure that any investigation should reveal its findings. Earlier this month, two police officers were hospitalised and five injured during a drug bust that turned violent, and video footage emerged showing police officers allegedly being assaulted by a mob during a raid at a reported drug den. Mbalula has visited the police officers injured during the alleged attack. Meanwhile, allegations of a revenge attack carried out by police on foreign nationals are being investigated by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate. According to Mbalula, the Police Ministry did not have any information on a revenge attack and said the cops on duty were merely doing their jobs. “That information is not at our disposal, that police went there for revenge attacks. What we know is that our cops were on duty doing their jobs as usual, searching for drugs, and that they went to this house and found a dead body among other things in the house,” said Mbalula. “The body that was discovered there became the rallying point for a group of Nigerian citizens who grouped and basically attacked the police. In the context of constitutional democracy and the maintenance of the rule of law and order, nobody has got the right to attack the police,” Mbalula said. The officers were subjected to “provocation and rampant disorder” by the mob. @Zwane_2li2ls