South African hip hop fans can gear up for the ‘Bad and Boujee” trio Migos to grace our shores in just over a week. Mabala Noise in association with MTV Base, BET Africa , YFM and Gagasi FM  are bringing the international hip hop and trap artists to perform live in South Africa for the first time this October.The US trio will be touring SA as part of their #MigosCultureTour, and are expected to perform in Durban and Joburg on the October 20 and 21. The group formed in 2009, comprised of members Quavo (born Quavious Keyate Marshall), Takeoff (born Kirshnik Khari Ball) and Offset (born Kiari Kendrell Cephus) from Georgia, USA. The three members are directly related and were raised together; Quavo is Takeoff's uncle, and Offset is Quavo's cousin.Migos have taken the hiphop world by storm since 2013 with their hit single ‘Versace’, followed by ‘Look at My Dab’ which lead to an international dance sensation in 2015. Their breakthrough international party anthem / mega-hit “Bad and Boujee” with over 700 million plays across Youtube. The Versace hit makers were recently nominated for the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards for Single of the Year, Best Collabo Duo or Group.    Local promoters took to social media to dismiss rumours that the trio coming to SA was a scam.Rumours circulated on social media that promoters were scamming fans and that Migos was not even coming to the continent.However, promotion company Mabala Noise has issued a statement to nervous South African fans assuring them Migos was coming next week. South African fans were asked by local record label Mabala Noise to give the US trio local names and Twitter did not disappoint by giving Quavo the proudly South African name Qiniso Bhengu. South African artist on the lineup for the concert will be multiple award winning hiphop artist AKA together with international King Kotini fashion icon Riky Rick. Durban’s biggest exports, the highly acclaimed rapper Nasty C, Afrotainment’s DJ Tira and dance sensation Wololo hitmaker Babes Wodumo will also be headlining the concert.Trap lovers can grab their tickets now on Computicket and Ticketpro which range from R350 to R790. @Zwane_2li2ls