With the matric exams fast approaching, the candidates at the prison school, like all other candidates, are getting ready for the final exams. The prison school has a variety of candidates - those who will be sitting for the exams for the first time and those who want to improve their results.  One of the candidates who will be sitting for the exams for the first time is Sydwell Kgawane, 35. He will be writing maths, life sciences, history, geography, life orientation, Zulu and English. Kgawane, who is serving a life sentence, said he was excited, but nervous, about the exams. “I am ready but nervous. Prelims gave me energy to be prepared and I don’t think they differ much from the final exams. I am confident I will do well,” he said. He said his lifelong dream was to become a psychologist and he hopes to pursue it after passing matric. As a result of a shortage of teachers, Kgawane has been forced to study Zulu as a language and not his home language Sepedi. “We don’t have enough teachers for the different languages, so we are encouraged to take Zulu instead. I even pass it better than Zulu speakers,” he laughed. Bonisiwe Mdletshe, who has been in a teacher in the prison system since 1998, admits the shortage of teachers is a problem, but they have come up with innovative ways to cope. “We don’t have full-time school teachers in all learning areas. We get offenders who are ex-teachers or qualified in certain subjects to help teach classes. We also get the past learners to help facilitate classes they have  passed,” Mdletshe said. One of the matric candidates who also assists in facilitating classes is Rutendo Nyarukokora.  The 47-year-old has served the bulk of his 20-year sentence and is expecting to be released in a year-and-a-half. He helps facilitate Grade 10 business studies and English lessons. Nyarukokora wrote matric last year and got a diploma pass. He is now improving his maths and English results so he can achieve a bachelor pass. “I am going to be released soon and I want to improve my life. Once I get better results, I will start studying for a BCom degree and finish it when I leave here,”  he said. He plans to open his own restaurant when he gets released. On how he studies in prison, Nyarukokora admits the environment is not very conducive. “Sometimes inmates share cells and you might stay with someone who doesn’t study. We push our sentences in different ways so someone might love loud music while you want to study and there is nothing you can do about it,” he said. “I use the time after lock-up to study.  When my cellmate is sleeping between midnight and 5am, I use that time to study.” This year, the Johannesburg Prison has 14 full-time and 12 candidates who are rewriting. Last year, their pass rate was 55%, down from 76% in 2015. Nationally, 211 inmates from 14 Department of Correctional Services schools will sit for the exams, a 63.5% increase from the 129 in the 2016 academic year. Acting national commissioner, James Smalberger said: “The notable increase in the number of inmates enrolling for the examinations year-on-year demonstrates our rehabilitation efforts through formal education so that we can increase literacy levels of inmates, thus giving them a second chance in life.” For Wiseman Ramokgatla, 22, rewriting matric is about second chances.  He first sat for the exams in 2014. “When I got to this place I came to a realisation about what I want in life. This place has helped me a lot,” he said. Ramokgatla, who is serving a life sentence, believes he will achieve at least two distinctions. “I am going to get distinctions in business studies and economics. I love accounting, but I don’t know why I am struggling with it,” he said. Another subject he is struggling with is maths. “I think it is so hard because I hate it. We are all struggling with maths. “How can someone who is passing maths with 30% tell me, if they are passing maths with 30%,” he said. He is not willing to give up and wants to enrol for a business degree with the University of South Africa. “Education is very important when in prison. It is something that will help us when we leave this place,” he said.