Maine said Dlamini Zuma was the only hope for free education and the implementation of radical economic transformation in the country. He was addressing hundreds of ANC members in Evaton, in the Vaal, who broke ranks with the provincial ANC decision to endorse Ramaphosa. The members came from various branches in the ANC’s Sedibeng region to demonstrate to Dlamini Zuma, who was the main speaker, that they were endorsing her. “You are still on the right side of history. You made a progressive decision to support Comrade Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. “We are going to face a lot of challenges for making such a decision. South Africa is faced with another junk status, because of our decision to support Comrade Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma in Mangaung,” Maine said. He added that the latest “plot” by the British and American law-enforcement agencies to investigate Dlamini Zuma was nothing but a plan by the US and Britain to choose a leader for the ANC. “They want to tell us who must lead the ANC. We must refuse to be told who must lead us. We are going to get junk status (but) we will rise. The worst happened in the past. We defeated apartheid. We are going to rise against the junk status. “The ANC is not for sale. We are going to defend the ANC and our country,” Maine warned. He urged branches to elect “trusted delegates”, who will not be bought by Dlamini Zuma’s rivals. “Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma is not a faction. We are not a faction. She is a leader without scandals. She never speaks ill of other leaders of the ANC. You must nominate Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma in your branch general meetings. You must refuse to hand over the ANC to the dogs,” he said. So confident was Maine, that he emphasised that during Dlamini Zuma’s ANC reign, people would have ownership of the mines. He also slammed those opposing her because she is Jacob Zuma’s ex-wife. “She joined the ANC as an individual. There were a lot of husbands and wives in the ANC in the past. Nelson Mandela and Winnie Mandela. The Motshekgas. “What is wrong with her (Dlamini Zuma)?” Maine said: “The future looks bright for the ANC”, with Dlamini Zuma at the helm - a sentiment shared by Free State Premier Ace Magashule and uMkhonto we Sizwe Veterans Association leader Kebby Maphatsoe. Agreeing with Maine that some ANC members, without mentioning names, were hell-bent on retaining white control of the economy, Magashule said: “I know some in the ANC’s national executive committee who eat with white people. “Ask them who bought the properties they live on and the cars they drive Who bought it for them? “Ask them where did they get those houses and cars? “She (Dlamini Zuma) will also want expropriation of land, without compensation,” Maphatsoe said. Magashule told the hundreds of supporters that they had taken a decision to support four women in the ANC top leadership alongside Dlamini Zuma, the others being Nomvula Mokonyane, Jessie Duarte and Maite Nkoane-Mashabane. Maphatsoe was equally scathing, saying the FBI probe into Dlamini Zuma was merely to stop her plans of “radical economic transformation”. He said the FBI’s investigation amounted to the  involvement of foreign agencies in the internal affairs of the ANC and South Africa and “to determine who must be the ANC’s president”. Political Bureau