Durban - The N2 free was closed in both directions at Galleria Mall due to severe flooding caused by a massive storm that made hit on Tuesday morning. The storm knocked down powerlines and caused outages in several suburbs on the south coast. Several homes and buildings were also flooded. And residents were urged to brace themselves for wet and windy conditions another round of heavy rains set to hit the province later today. KwaZulu-Natal, Eastern Cape and Mpumalanga is expected to be lashed by the rains while there is a prediction of snow in south parts of the Drakensberg. This is due to an intense cut off low system. The heavy rainfall could lead to localised flooding along the coast, adjacent interior and extreme southern parts of the province. According to SA Weather Service, the rains are expected along the KZN coast up to East London. Very cold conditions are set to spread from the Eastern Cape and Northern Cape to the south-western high lying areas in the province.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Jan Vermeulen, a forecaster from SA Weather Services said there had already been at least 108 millimetres of rainfall reported in Paddock.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “We can expect lots of rainfall in KZN today, more especially along the coast with widespread showers. There is a warning for heavy rain in some parts of the province. This will mainly affect the coast and adjacent parts. The system is still moving. There may be a peak of sunshine later today or early tomorrow. It is expected to clear a little by Wednesday with Thursday being a fine and warmer day,” Vermeulen said. He added that there is another cold front expected to hit the KZN again by the weekend. Ethekwini Municipality Disaster teams have confirmed that they are on standby. Daily News